Docs Home → Launch & Manage MongoDB → MongoDB Atlas

# GCP Self-Serve Marketplace

Share Feedback

On this page

  * Link a GCP Billing Account to MongoDB Atlas
  * Unlink a GCP Billing Account from MongoDB Atlas

Atlas supports paying for usage via the Google Cloud Marketplace (GCP MP)
without any upfront commitment. You can link an Atlas account to a Google
Cloud Billing Account, as well as delete an existing subscription.

## Link a GCP Billing Account to MongoDB Atlas

To link your Google Cloud Billing Account to MongoDB:

1

### Sign in to your to GCP account.

If you do not already have a GCP account, create a new GCP account.

2

### Navigate to the MongoDB Atlas (Pay as You Go) subscription page.

3

### On the MongoDB Atlas (Pay as You Go) page, review the Overview and click
Subscribe.

4

### On the New MongoDB Atlas Self Serve subscription page, complete the steps
to subscribe.

  1. Select your billing account from the dropdown in the Purchase details section.

  2. Review and accept the Terms.

  3. Click Subscribe

5

### In the modal, click the yellow Register With MongoDB button.

If you are already signed in to an existing MongoDB Atlas account, you are
automatically redirected to the Select an Organization to Link to Your GCP
Billing Account page on the MongoDB Atlas website when you click Register With
MongoDB.

If you are not already signed in to an existing MongoDB Atlas account, you are
prompted to sign in to a MongoDB Atlas account. After you sign-in, you are
automatically redirected to the Select an Organization to Link to Your GCP
Billing Account page.

## Note

If you are unable to complete your registration, you can return to this step
by navigating to Your Orders page in the GCP Marketplace.

6

### On the Select an Organization to Link to Your GCP Billing Account page,
link an organization.

On the Select an Organization to Link to Your GCP Billing Account page, click
the Link button in the Actions column for the organization you wish to link to
your GCP account. Atlas redirects you to the Billing overview page of the
organization that you are linking with your GCP account.

If you don't have any organizations available to link to your GCP account,
click Create New Organization and follow the steps to create a new
organization.

## Important

If the Link button for a particular organization is disabled, the organziation
can't be linked to your GCP account. To see why you are unable to link a
particular organziation, mouse over the disabled Link button to display a
tooltip with more information.

7

### Wait for GCP to finish syncing your organization.

In the bottom left-hand corner of the Billing page, Atlas displays a pop-up
notifying you that your organization is syncing with your GCP account.
Additionally, the Payment Method field of the Billing page remains empty until
the sync is complete.

When the sync completes successfully, you can see the following in the Atlas
UI:

  * In the bottom left-hand corner of the Billing page, a green pop-up that indicates that you have successfully linked your organization to your GCP account.

  * In the Payment Method field, _GCP Marketplace Subscription_ is now listed.

## Important

The Edit button in the Payment Method field is disabled when you have a _GCP
Marketplace Subscription_. To remove the _GCP Marketplace Subscription_
payment method, you must unlink your GCP Billing Account from MongoDB.

## Unlink a GCP Billing Account from MongoDB Atlas

To unlink your Google Cloud Billing Account from MongoDB:

1

### Sign in to your to GCP account.

2

### Navigate to the GCP Marketplace (GCP MP).

3

### Navigate to Your Orders page.

4

### Click the vertical ellipses for the _MongoDB Atlas (Pay as You Go)_
subscription that you wish to unlink.

A dropdown with available actions displays.

5

### Click the Cancel Purchase button from the dropdown.

A confirmation modal prompts you to confirm cancellation of purchase.

6

### Click Cancel Purchase in the confirmation window.

Upon successful cancellation of your subscription, the checkmark in the
_Status_ column appears grayed out for the _MongoDB Atlas (Pay as You Go)_
subscription that you canceled.

← Azure Self-Serve MarketplaceAdditional Services →

