Docs Home → Launch & Manage MongoDB → MongoDB Atlas

# Manage Subscriptions

Share Feedback

On this page

  * Subscription Types
  * Purchase a Subscription
  * Activate a Subscription
  * View Available Subscription Credits
  * View Subscription Charges
  * Pay Subscription Charges
  * Update your Billing Contact Information

A MongoDB subscription offers flexible payment terms and advanced support
options. Subscriptions allow for billing in different currencies, billing in
arrears, billing monthly or for annual invoicing with ACH payments or wire
transfers. Subscriptions provide order forms [1] and an Enterprise Customer
Service Agreement (CSA).

## Subscription Types

Subscription

|

Description  
  
|  
  
Elastic subscription

|

You receive a monthly invoice for your usage.  
  
Flex Commitment subscription

|

You commit to paying for a number of credits for a term, such as annual, and
receive a monthly invoice for your usage. Unused credits are charged in the
last month of the subscription's term.  
  
Monthly Commitment subscription

|

You commit to paying for a number of credits for a term, such as annual, and
receive a monthly invoice for the greater of your usage or your prorated
monthly commitment. You can apply unused credits at a later date during the
term to cover overages.  
  
Marketplace subscription

|

You receive invoices for your Atlas usage through the marketplace from which
you subscribed.  
  
Prepaid subscription

|

You prepay for credits, usable for a term you define upon subscribing, such as
annual.  
  
## Purchase a Subscription

To purchase a subscription, contact MongoDB Sales.

When you purchase a subscription, you are asked to provide a _billing contact_
email address. Your billing contact receives invoices.

## Note

MongoDB recommends inviting your billing contact to your subscription-paying
organization.

## Activate a Subscription

## Note

You must be an `Organization Owner` or `Organization Billing Admin` to
activate a subscription.

When you purchase a subscription from MongoDB Sales, MongoDB sends you an
email containing an activation code. To apply this subscription to your Atlas
organization:

1

### Navigate to the Billing page.

The Overview tab displays.

2

### Click the Apply Credit button.

3

### Enter your Activation Code.

4

### Click Submit.

With an active subscription, Atlas displays a confirmation icon and message in
the Payment Method card.

click to enlarge

## Note

  * If you do not add your subscription activation code within the first 30 days of use, MongoDB charges the credit card associated with the account. Credit card charges are non-refundable.

  * If you lose your activation code, request support.

## View Available Subscription Credits

You can view active and upcoming subscription credits in the Available Credits
table on your organization's Billing page in the Overview tab.

click to enlarge

The Available Credits table displays:

  * An Elastic Billing Enabled indicator if your organization has Elastic Billing enabled.

  * Your active available credits. Active credit items display a progress bar to show your usage to date of that total pool of credits.

  * Elastic Billing subscriptions, represented as infinite available credit. An active Elastic Billing subscription means you're charged for Atlas usage as you go.

  * Upcoming available credits that you have not yet started to spend, displayed in gray.

Available credits are drawn from the top item to the bottom in the order they
appear on the table.

To view your expired credits, see the History table located below the
Available Credits table.

### Monthly Commitment Subscription Credits

If your subscription includes a commitment for a term (e.g. annual), you can
view your month's spending against your commitment on your organization's
Available Credits table.

click to enlarge

At the end of the month, if your usage is lower than your prorated monthly
commitment, you are charged for the prorated commitment. Unused credits can be
applied at a later date during the term to cover overages.

### Elastic Billing Subscription

If you have an active Elastic Billing subscription, you are charged for your
usage as you go.

## Note

If Elastic Billing is enabled, an indicator displays at the top of the
Available Credits table.

The Elastic Billing indicator does not necessarily mean your Elastic Billing
subscription is active, only that it is enabled. If you run out of credits,
your organization will automatically transition to Elastic Billing.

click to enlarge

The Used column displays your elastic usage to date.

## View Subscription Charges

In each one of your invoices, the Summary By Project and Summary By Service
tables list your usage in terms of USD.

In addition, you can examine the Payment and Usage Details for your
subscription.

To view your monthly commitment subscription charges in the Payment Details
section of your invoice:

1

### Open your organization's Billing page.

2

### Open the Invoices tab.

3

### Select the invoice and click the link under Invoice Date or Invoice
Period.

4

### Scroll down to the Payment Details section of your invoice.

The Payment Details table lists payment methods in the left-most column and
shows all the related payment information for each payment method.

5

### Locate the Atlas monthly commitment in the Payment method column.

6

### Locate the Total column for the Atlas monthly commitment row.

The Total column shows your total subscription cost for that invoice period.

7

### In the Actions column, click View Details.

The pop-up informational card opens that shows the details of your monthly
commitment for your subscription. This card compares your subscription
commitment to your usage during the invoice period. You are charged the
greater of your monthly commit or your usage. Unused credits are applied to
cover overages during the term of your subscription.

## Pay Subscription Charges

With a subscription, you receive two invoices each month:

  * A _cloud invoice_ detailing your MongoDB Cloud usage, viewable in Atlas on your organization's Billing page.

  * A _tax invoice_ emailed to your billing contact with MongoDB bank details and an amount due.

## Note

If you purchase a MongoDB subscription from a marketplace, you do not receive
a tax invoice. Instead, you receive an invoice with an amount due through that
marketplace.

Your cloud invoice represents MongoDB Cloud usage in USD and does not account
for currency conversions or other adjustments. The tax invoice emailed to your
billing contact provides the amount to pay.

If your subscription covers the billing period, pay the invoice emailed to
your billing contact. If your subscription does not cover the billing period,
your payment method on file is charged.

If you are a YayPay customer, you can pay your monthly commitment or elastic
invoices directly from the Payment Details section of your invoice page. To
learn more, see View and Pay Your Current Invoice.

See also How can I pay for an Atlas subscription with a credit card?.

## Update your Billing Contact Information

To update your billing contact information, email a request to ar@mongodb.com.
Please include your company's name, your Organization ID, and your new billing
contact information.

You can find your Organization ID in the Atlas UI, under your organization's
General Settings.

[1]|  An order form represents your specific subscription agreement with
MongoDB. MongoDB sends a new order form to your billing contact each
subscription cycle.  
|  
  
← Manage InvoicesCluster Configuration Costs →

