Docs Home → Launch & Manage MongoDB → MongoDB Atlas

# Connect to a Cluster using Command Line Tools

Share Feedback

On this page

  * Access the Command Line Tools Tab
  * Navigate to the Database Deployments page for your project.
  * Choose Command Line Tools for your desired cluster.
  * Connect with `mongorestore`
  * Connect with `mongodump`
  * Connect with `mongoimport`
  * Connect with `mongoexport`
  * Connect with `mongostat`
  * Connect with `mongotop`
  * Troubleshooting

Atlas provides instructions for connecting to an Atlas cluster using select
MongoDB command line tools in the Command Line Tools tab.

For serverless instances, use MongoDB Tools version 100.5.x or later. To learn
more, see Minimum MongoDB Tools Version for serverless instances.

## Note

The **Required Access** sections in the MongoDB Database Tools documentation
reference MongoDB roles and privileges that correspond to Atlas roles,
privileges, and privilege actions.

## Access the Command Line Tools Tab

To access the Atlas Command Line Tools tab:

1

### Navigate to the Database Deployments page for your project.

  1. If it is not already displayed, select the organization that contains your desired project from the __ Organizations menu in the navigation bar.

  2. If it is not already displayed, select your desired project from the Projects menu in the navigation bar.

  3. If the Database Deployments page is not already displayed, click Database in the sidebar.

2

### Choose Command Line Tools for your desired cluster.

From the __menu for the cluster, click Command Line Tools.

## Connect with `mongorestore`

## Note

Since Atlas doesn't offer an individual `restore` role, privilege, or
privilege action, you must have the `Atlas admin` role to use `mongorestore`.

The Binary Import and Export Tools section of the Command Line Tools tab
displays a copyable template with the minimum required options for connecting
`mongorestore` to your Atlas cluster. For instructions on finding the Command
Line Tools tab, see Access the Command Line Tools Tab.

The template includes placeholder values for certain options. You must replace
these placeholders with the appropriate values for your Atlas cluster:

  * `<PASSWORD>` \- replace this with the password for the user specified in `--username`. The template includes a database user for the project as the `--username`. If you want to authenticate as a different user, replace the value of `--username` and specify the password for that user in `--password`.

If your password contains special characters, surround it in double or single
quotes. For example, if your password is `@bc123`, you must surround it in
quotes, such as `"@bc123"`.

Include any other `mongorestore` command line options as required before
copying and pasting the command into your system terminal and executing the
full command. See `mongorestore` for complete documentation on the available
command line options and how to use them.

## Note

### Connecting to an Atlas cluster from Microsoft Windows

For users on Windows, specify `mongorestore.exe`

You may need to provide the full file path to the `mongorestore.exe`.

## Connect with `mongodump`

The Binary Import and Export section of the Command Line Tools tab displays a
copyable template with the minimum required options for connecting `mongodump`
to your Atlas cluster. For instructions on finding the Command Line Tools tab,
see Access the Command Line Tools Tab.

The template includes placeholder values for certain options. You must replace
these placeholders with the appropriate values for your Atlas cluster:

  * `<PASSWORD>` \- replace this with the password for the user specified in `--username`. The template includes a database user for the project as the `--username`. If you want to authenticate as a different user, replace the value of `--username` and specify the password for that user in `--password`.

If your password contains special characters, surround it in double or single
quotes. For example, if your password is `@bc123`, you must surround it in
quotes, such as `"@bc123"`.

  * `<DATABASE>` \- replace this with the name of the database you want to export data from

Include any other `mongodump` command line options as required before copying
and pasting the command into your system terminal and executing the full
command. See `mongodump` for complete documentation on the available command
line options and how to use them.

## Note

### Connecting to an Atlas cluster from Microsoft Windows

For users on Windows, specify `mongodump.exe`

You may need to provide the full file path to the `mongodump.exe`.

## Connect with `mongoimport`

The Data Import and Export Tools section of the Command Line Tools tab
displays a copyable template with the minimum required options for connecting
`mongoimport` to your Atlas cluster. For instructions on finding the Command
Line Tools tab, see Access the Command Line Tools Tab.

The template includes placeholder values for certain options. You must replace
these placeholders with the appropriate values for your Atlas cluster:

  * `<PASSWORD>` \- replace this with the password for the user specified in `--username`. The template includes a database user for the project as the `--username`. If you want to authenticate as a different user, replace the value of `--username` and specify the password for that user in `--password`.

If your password contains special characters, surround it in double or single
quotes. For example, if your password is `@bc123`, you must surround it in
quotes, such as `"@bc123"`.

  * `<DATABASE>` \- the name of the database you want to import data into.

  * `<COLLECTION>` \- the name of the collection you want to import data into.

  * `<FILETYPE>` \- the file type of the data source you are importing data from. See \--type for more information.

  * `<FILENAME>` \- the name of the data source you are importing data from. See \--file for more information.

Include any other `mongoimport` command line options as required before
copying and pasting the command into your system terminal and executing the
full command. See `mongoimport` for complete documentation on the available
command line options and how to use them.

## Note

### Connecting to an Atlas cluster from Microsoft Windows

For users on Windows, specify `mongoimport.exe`

You may need to provide the full file path to the `mongoimport.exe`.

## Connect with `mongoexport`

The Data Import and Export Tools section of the Command Line Tools tab
displays a copyable template with the minimum required options for connecting
`mongoexport` to your Atlas cluster. For instructions on finding the Command
Line Tools tab, see Access the Command Line Tools Tab.

The template includes placeholder values for certain options. You must replace
these placeholders with the appropriate values for your Atlas cluster:

  * `<PASSWORD>` \- replace this with the password for the user specified in `--username`. The template includes a database user for the project as the `--username`. If you want to authenticate as a different user, replace the value of `--username` and specify the password for that user in `--password`.

If your password contains special characters, surround it in double or single
quotes. For example, if your password is `@bc123`, you must surround it in
quotes, such as `"@bc123"`.

  * `<DATABASE>` \- the name of the database you want to export data from.

  * `<COLLECTION>` \- the name of the collection you want to export data from.

  * `<FILETYPE>` \- the file type of the data source you are exporting data to. See \--type for more information.

  * `<FILENAME>` \- the name of the data source you are exporting data to. See \--file for more information.

Include any other `mongoexport` command line options as required before
copying and pasting the command into your system terminal and executing the
full command. See `mongoexport` for complete documentation on the available
command line options and how to use them.

## Note

### Connecting to an Atlas cluster from Microsoft Windows

For users on Windows, specify `mongoexport.exe`

You may need to provide the full file path to the `mongoexport.exe`.

## Connect with `mongostat`

The Set Up Diagnostics section of the Command Line Tools tab displays a
copyable template with the minimum required options for connecting `mongostat`
to your Atlas cluster. For instructions on finding the Command Line Tools tab,
see Access the Command Line Tools Tab.

The template includes placeholder values for certain options. You must replace
these placeholders with the appropriate values for your Atlas cluster:

  * `<PASSWORD>` \- replace this with the password for the user specified in `--username`. The template includes a database user for the project as the `--username`. If you want to authenticate as a different user, replace the value of `--username` and specify the password for that user in `--password`.

If your password contains special characters, surround it in double or single
quotes. For example, if your password is `@bc123`, you must surround it in
quotes, such as `"@bc123"`.

Include any other `mongostat` command line options as required before copying
and pasting the command into your system terminal and executing the full
command. See `mongostat` for complete documentation on the available command
line options and how to use them.

## Note

### Connecting to an Atlas cluster from Microsoft Windows

For users on Windows, specify `mongostat.exe`

You may need to provide the full file path to the `mongostat.exe`.

## Connect with `mongotop`

The Set Up Diagnostics section of the Command Line Tools tab displays a
copyable template with the minimum required options for connecting `mongotop`
to your Atlas cluster. For instructions on finding the Command Line Tools tab,
see Access the Command Line Tools Tab.

The template includes placeholder values for certain options. You must replace
these placeholders with the appropriate values for your Atlas cluster:

  * `<PASSWORD>` \- replace this with the password for the user specified in `--username`. The template includes a database user for the project as the `--username`. If you want to authenticate as a different user, replace the value of `--username` and specify the password for that user in `--password`.

If your password contains special characters, surround it in double or single
quotes. For example, if your password is `@bc123`, you must surround it in
quotes, such as `"@bc123"`.

Include any other `mongotop` command line options as required before copying
and pasting the command into your system terminal and executing the full
command. See `mongotop` for complete documentation on the available command
line options and how to use them.

## Note

### Connecting to an Atlas cluster from Microsoft Windows

For users on Windows, specify `mongotop.exe`

You may need to provide the full file path to the `mongotop.exe`.

## Troubleshooting

If you are experiencing issues connecting to your database deployment, see
Troubleshoot Connection Issues.

← Connect from Power BI Desktop (Windows)Connect via VS Code →

