Docs Home → Launch & Manage MongoDB → MongoDB Atlas

# Query a Federated Database Instance

Share Feedback

On this page

  * Querying Data on S3
  * Querying Data in Your Atlas Cluster
  * Querying Data in Your Data Lake Datasets
  * Querying Data at a HTTP or HTTPS URL
  * Running Federated Queries
  * Configuring Query Limits
  * Troubleshooting

You can use the MongoDB Query Language (MQL) on Atlas Data Federation to query
and analyze data on your data store. Atlas Data Federation supports most, but
not all the standard server commands. To learn more about the supported and
unsupported MongoDB server commands and aggregation pipleline stages, see
Supported MongoDB Commands.

To query data on your data store, your federated database instance storage
configuration must contain settings that define:

  * Your federated database instance store.

  * Federated Database Instance virtual databases and collections that map to your federated database instance store.

You can create or update your federated database instance storage
configuration for your data store using the Atlas UI Visual Editor or JSON
Editor, Atlas Data Federation CLI commands, and Atlas Data Federation API
endpoints. To learn more about federated database instance storage
configuration, see Define Data Stores for a Federated Database Instance.

Atlas Data Federation creates the virtual databases and collections you
specified in your federated database instance configuration for the data in
your data store. When you connect to your federated database instance and run
queries, Atlas Data Federation processes your queries against the data and
returns the query results. You can, optionally, configure limits on the amount
of data that Atlas Data Federation processes for your queries to control
costs.

A database user must have one of the following roles to run queries against a
federated database instance:

  * readWriteAnyDatabase

  * readAnyDatabase

  * A custom role with the find privilege for the namespace against which you want to run queries

You can run up to 30 simultaneous queries on your federated database instance
against:

  * Data in your S3 bucket.

  * Documents in your MongoDB Atlas cluster.

  * Extracted data in Atlas Data Lake datasets.

  * Data in files hosted at publicly accessible URLs.

## Tip

### See:

  * How to Connect to Your Federated Database Instance

  * How to Run Queries Against Your Data Using Your Federated Database Instance

The following sections contain information pertaining to running queries
against data in your data store.

## Querying Data on S3

When deploying your federated database instance, if you specified an S3 bucket
with both read and write permissions or AWS S3 s3:PutObject permission, you
can also save your query results in your S3 bucket using `$out` to S3.

If you successfully create or update an object on your S3 data store, Data
Federation returns the latest version of that object for any subsequent read
requests and all list operations of the objects also reflect the changes. If
your query contains multiple stages, each stage receives the most recent data
available from the data store as that stage is processed.

By default, Atlas Data Federation does not return documents in any specific
order for queries on Data Federations for S3 data stores. Atlas Data
Federation reads the partitions concurrently and the underlying storage
response order determines which documents Atlas Data Federation returns first,
unless you define order using `$sort` in your query. For example, if you run
the same `findOne()` query twice, you could see different documents, and if
you use `$skip`, different documents might be skipped if `$sort` is not used
in the query.

You incur "Data Processed" costs for the amount of data that Atlas Data
Federation processes to return results for your queries in addition to the
"Data Returned" cost for the amount of data that Atlas Data Federation
returns. For example, for a 10 GB file, you incur the following "Data
Processed" cost in addition to the "Data Returned" cost:

  * If you have no partitions, Atlas Data Federation reads the entire file to return results for the query. Therefore, you incur 10 GB of "Data Processed" cost.

  * If you have 10 partitions of 1 GB each, Atlas Data Federation targets and reads a single partition. Therefore, you incur 1 GB of "Data Processed" cost.

## Querying Data in Your Atlas Cluster

If you query a collection in Atlas Data Federation that is mapped to only one
Atlas collection, Atlas Data Federation acts as a proxy and forwards your
query to Atlas. When acting as a proxy, Atlas Data Federation doesn't scan
data into its virtual collection to process the query thus improving
performance and reducing cost. This optimization is not available for queries
on Atlas Data Federation collections that are mapped to multiple Atlas
collections.

## Example

Consider the following federated database instance storage configuration:

    
    
    {  
      
      "stores" : [  
        {  
          "name" : "atlas-store",  
          "provider": "atlas",  
          "clusterName": "myCluster",  
          "projectId": "5e2211c17a3e5a48f5497de3"  
        }  
      ],  
      "databases" : [  
        {  
          "name" : "atlas-db",  
          "collections" : [  
            {  
              "name" : "foo",  
              "dataSources" : [  
                {  
                  "storeName" : "atlas-store",  
                  "database" : "myFooData",  
                  "collection" : "foo"  
                }  
              ]  
            },  
            {  
              "name" : "barbaz",  
              "dataSources" : [  
                {  
                  "storeName" : "atlas-store",  
                  "database" : "myBarData",  
                  "collection" : "bar"  
                },  
                {  
                  "storeName" : "atlas-store",  
                  "database" : "myBazData",  
                  "collection" : "baz"  
                }  
              ]  
            }  
          ]  
        }  
      ]  
    }  
  
For the above storage configuration, Atlas Data Federation acts as a proxy for
queries on `foo` collection and forwards the queries to Atlas. This
performance and cost optimization is not available for queries on `barbaz`
collection because `barbaz` is mapped to multiple Atlas collections.

You can also save your query results in your Atlas cluster using `$out` to
Atlas.

If you successfully create or update a document in your collection on the
Atlas cluster, Data Federation returns the latest version of that document for
any subsequent read requests and all list operations of the collection also
reflect the changes. If your query contains multiple stages, each stage
receives the most recent data available from the data store as that stage is
processed.

Atlas logs your queries against your cluster data in the Atlas cluster audit
logs. The log entry for a database user is in the following format:

    
    
    <SERVICE_NAME>-<CUSTOMER_DATA_LAKE_NAME>-<DATABASE_USER_NAME>  
      
  
For example, for a database user configured in Atlas as `"user" :
"CN=atlasDataLake-DataLake0-test_datalake0"`, a log entry in the Atlas cluster
audit log looks similar to the following:

    
    
    {  
      
      "atype" : "authenticate",  
      "ts" : { "$date" : "2022-04-29T13:17:54.020+00:00" },  
      "local" : { "ip" : "XXXX", "port" : 27017 },  
      "remote" : { "ip" : "XXXXX", "port" : 10844 },  
      "users" : [ { "user" : "CN=atlasDataLake-DataLake0-test_datalake0", "db" : "$external" } ],  
      "roles" : [ { "role" : "backup", "db" : "admin" }, { "role" : "readWriteAnyDatabase", "db" : "admin" }, { "role" : "clusterMonitor", "db" : "admin" }, { "role" : "enableSharding", "db" : "admin" }, { "role" : "atlasAdmin", "db" : "admin" }, { "role" : "dbAdminAnyDatabase", "db" : "admin" } ],  
      "param" : { "user" : "CN=atlasDataLake-DataLake0-test_datalake0", "db" : "$external", "mechanism" : "MONGODB-X509" },  
      "result" : 0  
    }  
  
## Note

The connection mechanism is always `MONGODB-X509` in the Atlas cluster audit
logs.

## Querying Data in Your Data Lake Datasets

For queries, Atlas Data Federation uses the partitions that you created on
fields during the creation of the Atlas Data Lake pipeline. The order of
fields in the partitions is important in the same way as it is for Compound
Indexes. Data is optimized for queries by the first field, followed by the
second field, and so on. Atlas Data Federation parses the partitions in order;
if a query omits a particular partition, Atlas Data Federation is less
efficient in making use of any partitions that follow the omitted partition.

Atlas Data Federation is less performant in supporting queries on fields that
don't have partitions. Atlas Data Federation doesn't support queries on fields
that were explicitly excluded when creating the Atlas Data Lake pipeline.

## Querying Data at a HTTP or HTTPS URL

## Note

### Beta

The support for HTTP data stores is available as a Beta feature. The feature
and the corresponding documentation may change at any time during the Beta
stage.

Data Federation also creates one partition for each URL in your collection.
When you connect to your federated database instance and run queries, Data
Federation processes your queries against the data and returns the query
results.

## Running Federated Queries

You can use Atlas Data Federation to query and analyze a unified view of data
in your Atlas cluster, S3 bucket, HTTP URL, and Data Lake datasets. For
federated queries, your federated database instance storage configuration must
contain the settings that define:

  * Your S3, Atlas, Atlas Data Lake, and HTTP stores.

  * Federated Database Instances with virtual collections that map to your S3, Atlas, Atlas Data Lake, and HTTP stores.

You can create or update your federated database instance storage
configuration using the Atlas UI Visual Editor or the JSON Editor, Atlas Data
Federation CLI commands, and Atlas Data Federation API endpoints. To learn
more about federated database instance storage configuration, see Define Data
Stores for a Federated Database Instance.

When you connect to your federated database instance and run federated
queries, Data Federation combines data from your Atlas cluster, S3 bucket,
Data Lake dataset, and HTTP URLs in virtual databases and collections and
returns a union of data in the results.

## Configuring Query Limits

You can limit the amount of data that Atlas Data Federation processes for your
queries to control costs. To limit the amount of data that Atlas Data
Federation processes for your queries, you can configure query limits per
federated database instance or for all federated database instances in your
project. When the amount of processed data reaches any applicable configured
limit, Atlas Data Federation won't execute any new queries and returns an
error to the client application that a limit has been reached. To learn more,
see Manage Atlas Data Federation Query Limits.

## Troubleshooting

 **Error:** We are currently experiencing increased query processing wait
times for Atlas Data Federation. Our Engineering team is investigating. Normal
service will resume shortly, please try again.

Atlas Data Federation returns this error only when Atlas Data Federation can't
execute queries because of resource contention. We recommend that you run your
queries again.

← Download Query LogsManage Atlas Data Federation Query Limits →

