Docs Home → Launch & Manage MongoDB → MongoDB Atlas

# Atlas Cluster

Share Feedback

On this page

  * Example Configuration for Atlas Data Store
  * Configuration Format
  * `stores`
  * `databases`

Atlas Data Federation supports Atlas clusters as federated database instance
stores. You must define mappings in your federated database instance to your
Atlas cluster to run queries against your data.

## Important

Information in your storage configuration is visible internally at MongoDB and
stored as operational data to monitor and improve the performance of Atlas
Data Federation. So, we recommend that you do not use PII in your
configurations.

## Example Configuration for Atlas Data Store

## Example

Consider a `M10` or higher Atlas cluster named `myDataCenter` containing data
in the `metrics.hardware` collection. The `metrics.hardware` collection
contains JSON documents with metrics derived from the hardware in a
datacenter. The following configuration:

  * Specifies the Atlas cluster named `myDataCenter` in the specified project as a federated database instance store.

  * Maps documents from the `metrics.hardware` collection in the Atlas cluster to the `dataCenter.inventory` collection in the storage configuration.

    
    
    {  
      
      "stores" : [  
        {  
           "name" : "atlasClusterStore",  
           "provider" : "atlas",  
           "clusterName" : "myDataCenter",  
           "projectId" : "5e2211c17a3e5a48f5497de3"  
        }  
      ],  
      "databases" : [  
        {  
          "name" : "dataCenter",  
          "collections" : [  
            {  
              "name" : "inventory",  
              "dataSources" : [  
                {  
                  "storeName" : "atlasClusterStore",  
                  "database" : "metrics",  
                  "collection" : "hardware"  
                }  
              ]  
            }  
          ]  
        }  
      ]  
    }  
  
Atlas Data Federation maps all the documents in the `metrics.hardware`
collection to the `dataCenter.inventory` collection in the storage
configuration.

Users connected to the federated database instance can use the MongoDB Query
Language and supported aggregations to analyze data in the Atlas cluster
through the `dataCenter.inventory` collection. When you run queries, the query
first goes to Atlas Data Federation. Therefore, if you run aggregation queries
that are supported by your Atlas cluster but not by Atlas Data Federation, the
queries will fail. To learn more about supported and unsupported commands in
Data Federation, see Supported MongoDB Commands.

## Tip

### See also:

Querying Data in Your Atlas Cluster

## Configuration Format

The federated database instance configuration has the following format:

    
    
    1| {  
    |  
    2|   "stores" : [  
    3|     {  
    4|       "name" : "<string>",  
    5|       "provider": "<string>",  
    6|       "clusterName": "<string>",   
    7|       "projectId": "<string>",  
    8|       "readPreference": {  
    9|         "mode": "<string>",  
    10|         "tagSets": [  
    11|           [{"name": "<string>", "value": "<string>"},...],  
    12|           ...  
    13|         ],  
    14|         "maxStalenessSeconds": <int>  
    15|       }  
    16|     }  
    17|   ],  
    18|   "databases" : [  
    19|     {  
    20|       "name" : "<string>",  
    21|       "collections" : [  
    22|         {  
    23|           "name" : "<string>",  
    24|           "dataSources" : [  
    25|             {  
    26|               "storeName" : "<string>",  
    27|               "database" : "<string>",  
    28|               "databaseRegex": "<string>",  
    29|               "collection" : "<string>",  
    30|               "collectionRegex" : "<string>",  
    31|               "provenanceFieldName": "<string>"  
    32|             }  
    33|           ]  
    34|         }  
    35|       ],  
    36|       "views" : [   
    37|         {  
    38|           "name" : "<string>",   
    39|           "source" : "<string>",   
    40|           "pipeline" : "<string>"   
    41|         }  
    42|       ]   
    43|     }  
    44|   ]  
    45| }  
  
`stores`

    The `stores` object defines each data store associated with the federated database instance. The federated database instance store captures files in documents in Atlas cluster. federated database instance can only access data stores defined in the `stores` object.
`databases`

    The `databases` object defines the mapping between each federated database instance store defined in `stores` and MongoDB collections in the databases.

### `stores`

    
    
    1| "stores" : [  
    |  
    2|   {  
    3|     "name" : "<string>",  
    4|     "provider" : "<string>",  
    5|     "clusterName" : "<string>",  
    6|     "projectId": "<string>",  
    7|     "readPreference": {  
    8|       "mode": "<string>",  
    9|       "tagSets": [  
    10|         [{"name": "<string>", "value": "<string>"},...],  
    11|         ...  
    12|       ],  
    13|       "maxStalenessSeconds": <int>  
    14|     }  
    15|   }  
    16| ]  
  
`stores`

    

Array of objects where each object represents a data store to associate with
the federated database instance. The federated database instance store
captures files in an S3 bucket, documents in Atlas cluster, or files stored at
publicly accessible URLs. Atlas Data Federation can only access data stores
defined in the `stores` object.

`stores.[n].name`

    

Name of the federated database instance store. The
`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].storeName` field references
this value as part of mapping configuration.

`stores.[n].provider`

    

Defines where the data is stored. Value must be `atlas` for a collection in an
Atlas cluster.

`stores.[n].clusterName`

    

Name of the Atlas cluster on which the store is based. The cluster must exist
in the same project as your federated database instance. The `source` field on
the data partition is the name of the Atlas cluster.

`stores.[n].projectId`

    

Unique identifier of the project that contains the Atlas cluster on which the
store is based.

`stores.[n].readPreference`

    

 _Optional._ Cluster read preference, which describes how to route read
requests to the cluster.

## Example

The following `readPreference` setting specifies `secondary` mode and
`ANALYTICS` nodeType.

    
    
    {  
      
      ...  
      "stores": [  
        {  
          "provider": "atlas",  
          "clusterName": <CLUSTER_NAME>,  
          "name": <STORE_NAME>,  
          "projectId": <PROJECT_ID>,  
          "readPreference": {  
            "mode": "secondary",  
            "tagSets": [  
              [  
                {  
                  "name": "nodeType",  
                  "value": "ANALYTICS"  
                }  
              ],  
              ...  
            ]  
          }  
        }  
      ]  
    }  
  
`stores.[n].readPreference.mode`

    

 _Optional._ Read preference mode that specifies which replica set member to
route the read requests to. Value can be one of the following:

  * `primary` \- to route all read requests to the replica set primary

  * `primaryPreferred` \- to route all read requests the replica set primary and to secondary members only if `primary` is unavailable

  * `secondary` \- to route all read requests to the secondary members of the replica set

  * `secondaryPreferred` \- to route all read requests to the secondary members of the replica set and the primary on sharded clusters only if `secondary` members are unavailable

  * `nearest` \- to route all read requests to random eligible replica set member, irrespective of whether that member is a primary or secondary

`stores.[n].readPreference.tagSets`

    

 _Optional._ Arrays of tag sets or tag specification documents that contain
name and value pairs for the replica set member. If specified, Atlas Data
Federation routes read requests to replica set member or members that are
associated with the specified tags. To learn more, Read Preference Tag Sets.

## Note

Atlas Data Federation doesn't support `tagSets` for sharded clusters.

`stores.[n].readPreference.maxStalenessSeconds`

    

 _Optional._ Maximum replication lag, or “staleness”, for reads from
secondaries. To learn more about `maxStalenessSeconds`, see Read Preference
maxStalenessSeconds.

### `databases`

    
    
    1| "databases" : [  
    |  
    2|   {  
    3|     "name" : "<string>",  
    4|     "collections" : [  
    5|       {  
    6|         "name" : "<string>",  
    7|         "dataSources" : [  
    8|           {  
    9|             "storeName" : "<string>",  
    10|             "database" : "<string>",  
    11|             "databaseRegex": "<string>",  
    12|             "collection" : "<string>",  
    13|             "collectionRegex" : "<string>",  
    14|             "provenanceFieldName": "<string>"   
    15|           }  
    16|         ]  
    17|       }  
    18|     ]  
    19|   }  
    20| ]  
  
`databases`

    

Array of objects where each object represents a database, its collections,
and, optionally, any views on the collections. Each database can have multiple
`collections` and `views` objects.

`databases.[n].name`

    

Name of the database to which Atlas Data Federation maps the data contained in
the data store. You can generate databases dynamically by specifying `*` for
the database name. Dynamically generated databases:

  * Can exist alongside explicitly defined databases. However, Atlas Data Federation won't dynamically generate databases with names that conflict with explicitly defined databases in the storage configuration.

  * Can only be from a single Atlas cluster. Atlas Data Federation won't dynamically generate databases from multiple Atlas clusters or other data stores.

`databases.[n].collections`

    

Array of objects where each object represents a collection and data sources
that map to a `stores` federated database instance store. For dynamically
generated databases, you can define only one wildcard (`*`) collection object
in the storage configuration.

`databases.[n].collections.[n].name`

    

Name of the collection to which Atlas Data Federation maps the data contained
in each `databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].storeName`. Each object
in the array represents the mapping between the collection and an object in
the `stores` array.

You can generate collection names dynamically by specifying `*` for the
collection name and omitting the `collection` field. To dynamically generate
wildcard (`*`) collections for dynamically generated wilcard (`*`) databases,
specify the `databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].storeName` option
and omit the `databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].database` option.
Note that for dynamically generated databases, you can define only one
wildcard (`*`) collection object in the storage configuration.

For wildcard (`*`) collections, you can also define regex patterns using
`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].collectionRegex` field to
filter the collections only.

`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources`

    

Array of objects where each object represents a `stores` federated database
instance store to map with the collection.

`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].storeName`

    

Name of a federated database instance store to map to the `<collection>`. Must
match the `name` of an object in the `stores` array.

`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].database`

    

Name of the database on the Atlas cluster that contains the collection. You
must omit this setting to:

  * Create a wildcard (`*`) collection for a wilcard (`*`) database.

  * Glob multiple databases.

`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].databaseRegex`

    

 _Optional_. Regex pattern to use for globbing databases to combine multiple
collections. If you specify this option, the federated database instance
instance contains a single database with collections from multiple databases.
For globbing databases, you must do the following:

  * Omit the `database` field.

  * Specify a valid name for the `databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].collection` field.

## Example

Suppose you have 2 databases named `foo` and `bar` that each have a collection
named `Sales`. You can combine the `Sales` collection from `foo` and `bar`
using the `databaseRegex` option in your storage configuration:

    
    
    {  
      
      "databases": [  
        {  
          "name": "Transactions",  
          "collections": [  
            {  
              "name": "AllSales",  
              "dataSources": [  
                {  
                  "storeName": "atlasStore",  
                  "databaseRegex": ".*",  
                  "collection": "Sales"  
                }  
              ]  
            }  
          ]  
        }  
      ]  
    }  
  
For the preceding `databases` object, Atlas Data Federation generates the
following in your federated database instance:

  * A virtual database named `Transactions`.

  * A virtual collection named `AllSales` that contains data from the collection named `Sales` in all the databases whose name match the regex pattern specified in the `databaseRegex` option.

If you specify this option, you must specify the name of the collection. You
can't specify this option for wildcard collections.

`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].collection`

    

Name of the collection in the Atlas cluster on which the federated database
instance store is based. You must omit this setting for:

  * Creating a wildcard (`*`) collection.

  * Creating wildcard collection names that match regex patterns.

  * Combining multiple collections in a database using regex patterns.

`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].collectionRegex`

    

 _Conditional: Optional for wildcard collections, required for combining
collections in a database_.

Regex pattern to use for creating the wildcard (`*`) collection or for
combining mulitple collections in a database.

 **To use regex patterns for wildcard (``*``) collection names** , you must do
the following:

  * Specify wildcard (`*`) as the value for `databases.[n].collections.[n].name`.

  * Omit `databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].collection`.

If you specify this field for generating wildcard collections, the federated
database instance instance only contains collections with names that match the
specified regular expression. The collections in the federated database
instance storage configuration use their original names in the Atlas cluster.

 **To use regex patterns for combining multiple collections in a database** ,
you must do the following:

  * Specify a name that isn't the wildcard (`*`) as the value for `databases.[n].collections.[n].name`.

  * Omit `databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].collection`.

If you specify this field for combining multiple collections, the collection
in the federated database instance instance contains data from all the Atlas
collections with names that match the specified regular expression. The
collection in the federated database instance storage configuration uses the
name that you specify as value for `databases.[n].collections.[n].name`.

To learn more about the regex syntax, see Go programming language.

`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].provenanceFieldName`

    

Name for the field that includes the provenance of the documents in the
results. If you specify this setting in the storage configuration, Atlas Data
Federation returns the following fields for each document in the result:

Field Name

|

Description  
  
|  
  
`provider`

|

Provider (`stores.[n].provider`) in the federated database instance storage
configuration  
  
`clusterName`

|

Name of the Atlas cluster (`stores.[n].clusterName`)  
  
`databaseName`

|

Name of the database
(`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].database`) in the Atlas
cluster  
  
`collectionName`

|

Name of the collection (`databases.[n].collections.[n].name`)  
  
You can't configure this setting using the Visual Editor in the Atlas UI.

`databases.[n].views`

    

Array of objects where each object represents an aggregation pipeline on a
collection. To learn more about views, see Views.

`databases.[n].views.[n].name`

    

Name of the view.

`databases.[n].views.[n].source`

    

Name of the source collection for the view.

`databases.[n].views.[n].pipeline`

    

Aggregation pipeline stage(s) to apply to the `source` collection.

## Tip

### See also:

  * Configure Atlas Data Federation

  * Tutorial: Federated Queries and $out to S3

← Data Federation AWS S3 LimitationsCreate From the UI →

