Docs Home → Launch & Manage MongoDB → MongoDB Atlas

# HTTP URL

Share Feedback

On this page

  * Example Configuration for HTTP Data Store
  * Configuration Format
  * `stores`
  * `databases`

Atlas Data Federation supports publicly accessible URLs as federated database
instance stores. You must define mappings in your federated database instance
to your HTTP data stores to run queries against your data.

## Important

Information in your storage configuration is visible internally at MongoDB and
stored as operational data to monitor and improve the performance of Atlas
Data Federation. So, we recommend that you do not use PII in your
configurations.

## Example Configuration for HTTP Data Store

## Note

### Beta

The support for HTTP data stores is available as a Beta feature. The feature
and the corresponding documentation may change at any time during the Beta
stage.

Consider URLs `https://www.datacenter-hardware.com/data.json`,
`https://www.datacenter-software.com/data.json`, and `https://www.datacenter-
metrics.com/data.json` containing data collected from a datacenter. The
following configuration:

  * Specifies the publicly accessible URLs that contain data in files as a federated database instance store.

  * Creates a partition for each URL.

    
    
    {  
      
      "stores" : [  
        {  
          "name" : "httpStore",  
          "provider" : "http",  
          "allowInsecure" : false,  
          "urls" : [  
            "https://www.datacenter-hardware.com/data.json",  
            "https://www.datacenter-software.com/data.json"  
          ],  
          "defaultFormat" : ".json"  
        }  
      ],  
      "databases" : [  
        {  
          "name" : "dataCenter",  
          "collections" : [  
            {  
              "name" : "inventory",  
              "dataSources" : [  
                {  
                  "storeName" : "httpStore",  
                  "allowInsecure" : false,  
                  "urls" : [  
                    "https://www.datacenter-metrics.com/data"  
                  ],  
                  "defaultFormat" : ".json"  
                }  
              ]  
            }  
          ]  
        }  
      ]  
    }  
  
## Tip

### See also:

Querying Data at a HTTP or HTTPS URL

## Configuration Format

The federated database instance configuration has the following format:

    
    
    1| {  
    |  
    2|   "stores" : [  
    3|     {  
    4|       "name" : "<string>",  
    5|       "provider": "<string>",  
    6|       "defaultFormat" : "<string>",  
    7|       "allowInsecure": <boolean>,  
    8|        "urls": ["<string>"]  
    9|     }  
    10|   ],  
    11|   "databases" : [  
    12|     {  
    13|       "name" : "<string>",  
    14|       "collections" : [  
    15|         {  
    16|           "name" : "<string>",  
    17|           "dataSources" : [  
    18|             {  
    19|               "storeName" : "<string>",  
    20|               "allowInsecure" : <boolean>,  
    21|               "urls" : ["<string>"],  
    22|               "defaultFormat" : "<string>",  
    23|               "provenanceFieldName": "<string>"  
    24|             }  
    25|           ]  
    26|         }  
    27|       ],  
    28|       "views" : [   
    29|         {  
    30|           "name" : "<string>",   
    31|           "source" : "<string>",   
    32|           "pipeline" : "<string>"   
    33|         }  
    34|       ]   
    35|     }  
    36|   ]  
    37| }  
  
`stores`

    The `stores` object defines each data store associated with the federated database instance. The federated database instance store captures files stored at publicly accessible URLs. Data Federation can only access data stores defined in the `stores` object.
`databases`

    The `databases` object defines the mapping between each federated database instance store defined in `stores` and MongoDB collections in the databases.

### `stores`

    
    
    1| "stores" : [  
    |  
    2|   {  
    3|     "name" : "<string>",  
    4|     "provider" : "<string>",  
    5|     "allowInsecure": <boolean>,  
    6|     "urls" : ["<string>"],  
    7|     "defaultFormat" : "<string>"  
    8|   }  
    9| ]  
  
`stores`

    

Array of objects where each object represents a data store to associate with
the federated database instance. The federated database instance store
captures files in an S3 bucket, documents in Atlas cluster, or files stored at
publicly accessible URLs. Atlas Data Federation can only access data stores
defined in the `stores` object.

`stores.[n].name`

    

Name of the federated database instance store. The
`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].storeName` field references
this value as part of mapping configuration.

`stores.[n].provider`

    

Defines where the data is stored. Value can be one of the following:

  * `s3` for an AWS S3 bucket.

  * `atlas` for a collection in an Atlas cluster.

  * `http` for data in files hosted at publicly accessible URLs.

`stores.[n].allowInsecure`

    

 _Optional._ Validates the scheme in the specified URLs. Value can be one of
the following:

  * `true` to allow insecure HTTP scheme

  * `false` to only allow secure HTTPS scheme (default)

If true, Atlas Data Federation:

  * Does not verify the server's certificate chain and hostname.

  * Accepts any certificate with any hostname presented by the server.

## Warning

If you set this to `true`, your data might become vulnerable to a man-in-the-
middle attack, which can compromise the confidentiality and integrity of your
data. Set this to `true` only for testing and getting started with Atlas Data
Federation.

If omitted, defaults to `false`. If set to `false`, Data Federation returns an
error similar to the following if a specified URL contains insecure HTTP
scheme:

    
    
    The insecure HTTP scheme is not supported by default - please add a "allowInsecure: true" flag to query from such URLs.  
      
  
`stores.[n].urls`

    

 _Optional._ Comma-separated list of publicly accessible HTTP URLs where data
is stored. You can't specify URLs that require authentication. If empty or
omitted, the storageGenerateConfig command will not generate any virtual
federated database instance databases or collections that reference the
federated database instance store.

`stores.[n].defaultFormat`

    

 _Optional._ Default format that Data Federation assumes if it encounters a
file without an extension while searching the
`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].storeName`.

The following values are valid for the `defaultFormat` field:

`.json, .json.gz, .bson, .bson.gz, .avro, .avro.gz, .orc, .tsv, .tsv.gz, .csv,
.csv.gz, .parquet`

## Note

If your file format is `CSV` or `TSV`, you must include a header row in your
data. See CSV and TSV for more information.

If omitted, Data Federation attempts to detect the file type by processing a
few bytes of the file.

The specified format only applies to the URLs specified in the `stores`
object.

## Tip

### See also:

Supported Data Formats

### `databases`

    
    
    1| "databases" : [  
    |  
    2|   {  
    3|     "name" : "<string>",  
    4|     "collections" : [  
    5|       {  
    6|         "name" : "<string>",  
    7|         "dataSources" : [  
    8|           {  
    9|             "storeName" : "<string>",  
    10|             "allowInsecure" : <boolean>,  
    11|             "urls" : ["<string>"],  
    12|             "defaultFormat" : "<string>",  
    13|             "provenanceFieldName": "<string>"  
    14|           }  
    15|         ]  
    16|       }  
    17|     ]  
    18|   }  
    19| ]  
  
`databases`

    

Array of objects where each object represents a database, its collections,
and, optionally, any views on the collections. Each database can have multiple
`collections` and `views` objects.

`databases.[n].name`

    

Name of the database to which Atlas Data Federation maps the data contained in
the data store.

`databases.[n].collections`

    

Array of objects where each object represents a collection and data sources
that map to a `stores` federated database instance store. For dynamically
generated databases, you can define only one wildcard (`*`) collection object
in the storage configuration.

`databases.[n].collections.[n].name`

    

Name of the collection to which Atlas Data Federation maps the data contained
in each `databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].storeName`. Each object
in the array represents the mapping between the collection and an object in
the `stores` array.

## Note

You can't generate wildcard `*` collections.

`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources`

    

Array of objects where each object represents a `stores` federated database
instance store to map with the collection.

`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].storeName`

    

Name of a federated database instance store to map to the `<collection>`. Must
match the `name` of an object in the `stores` array.

`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].allowInsecure`

    

 _Optional._ Validates the scheme in the specified URLs. Value can be one of
the following:

  * `true` to allow insecure HTTP scheme

  * `false` to only allow secure HTTPS scheme (default)

If true, Atlas Data Federation:

  * Does not verify the server's certificate chain and hostname.

  * Accepts any certificate with any hostname presented by the server.

## Warning

If you set this to `true`, your data might become vulnerable to a man-in-the-
middle attack, which can compromise the confidentiality and integrity of your
data. Set this to `true` only for testing and getting started with Atlas Data
Federation.

If omitted, defaults to `false`. If set to `false`, Data Federation returns an
error similar to the following if a specified URL contains insecure HTTP
scheme:

    
    
    The insecure HTTP scheme is not supported by default - please add a "allowInsecure: true" flag to query from such URLs.  
      
  
`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].urls`

    

 _Optional_. Comma-separated list of publicly accessible URLs where the data
is stored. Federated Database Instance creates a partition for each URL. You
can specify URLs that are not in the `urls`; however, the collection will
contain a union of data from URLs in both the `urls` and `urls`. If omitted,
Data Federation uses the `urls` in the specified `storeName`.

`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].defaultFormat`

    

 _Optional._ Default format that Data Federation assumes if it encounters a
file without an extension while searching the
`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].storeName`.

The following values are valid for the `defaultFormat` field:

`.json, .json.gz, .bson, .bson.gz, .avro, .avro.gz, .orc, .tsv, .tsv.gz, .csv,
.csv.gz, .parquet`

## Note

If your file format is `CSV` or `TSV`, you must include a header row in your
data. See CSV and TSV for more information.

If omitted, Data Federation attempts to detect the file type by processing a
few bytes of the file.

The specified format only applies to the URLs specified in the
`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources` object.

## Tip

### See also:

Supported Data Formats

`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].provenanceFieldName`

    

Name for the field that includes the provenance of the documents in the
results. If you specify this setting in the storage configuration, Atlas Data
Federation returns the following fields for each document in the result:

Field Name

|

Description  
  
|  
  
`provider`

|

Provider (`stores.[n].provider`) in the federated database instance storage
configuration  
  
`uri`

|

HTTP or HTTPS URL (`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].urls`) of
the document  
  
You can't configure this setting using the Visual Editor in the Atlas UI.

`databases.[n].views`

    

Array of objects where each object represents an aggregation pipeline on a
collection. To learn more about views, see Views.

`databases.[n].views.[n].name`

    

Name of the view.

`databases.[n].views.[n].source`

    

Name of the source collection for the view.

`databases.[n].views.[n].pipeline`

    

Aggregation pipeline stage(s) to apply to the `source` collection.

## Tip

### See also:

  * Configure Atlas Data Lake

  * Tutorial: Federated Queries and $out to S3

← Generate Wildcard CollectionsCreate From the UI →

