Docs Home → Launch & Manage MongoDB → MongoDB Atlas

# Optimize Query Performance

Share Feedback

On this page

  * Data Structure in S3
  * Data File Size
  * Data File Format

The performance of your federated database instance is affected by the
following factors:

  * The structure of your data in S3 and how you represent it in your federated database instance configuration.

  * The size of your data files.

  * The format and structure of your data files.

## Data Structure in S3

For easier management, ensure that your data is logically grouped into
partitions. Atlas Data Federation utilizes partitions you create with the
field values that you specify in your partition syntax. You can improve your
federated database instance's performance by ensuring that your partition
structure maps to your query patterns and the partition structure is defined
in your `databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].path`. For the
partition, choose fields that you query frequently and order them from the
most frequently queried in the first position to the least queried field in
the last position.

The order of fields listed in the
`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].path` is important in the same
way as it is in Compound Indexes. The specified path corresponds to data that
is partitioned first by the value of the first field, and then by the value of
the next field, and so on.

## Example

Consider a collection with the `software`, `computer`, and `OS` fields and
partitions on the S3 bucket named `metrics` first for the `software` field,
followed by the `computer` field, and then the `OS` field.

    
    
    metrics  
      
    |--software  
       |--computer  
          |--OS  
  
Atlas Data Federation uses the partitions for queries on the these fields:

  * the `software` field,

  * the `software` field and the `computer` field,

  * the `software` field and the `computer` field and the `OS` field.

Atlas Data Federation can use the partitions to support a query on the
`software` and `OS` fields. However, in this case, Atlas Data Federation is
not as efficient for the query as it would be if the query was on the
`software` and `computer` fields only. Partitions are parsed in order; if a
query omits a particular partition, Atlas Data Federation is less efficient in
making use of any partitions that follow the partition. Because a query on
`software` and `OS` omits `computer`, Atlas Data Federation uses the
`software` partition more efficiently than the `OS` partition to support this
query.

Atlas Data Federation can't use the partitions to support queries on fields
not specified in the `databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].path`.
Also, Atlas Data Federation can't use the partitions to support queries that
include the following fields without the `software` field:

  * the `computer` field,

  * the `OS` field, or

  * the `computer` and `OS` fields.

You can use partitions to improve Data Federation performance by mapping them
to partition attributes in your configuration. By mapping your _partition
attributes_ (the parts of your S3 prefix that looks like a folder) to a query
attribute, Atlas Data Federation can selectively open the files that contain
data related to your query. This reduces the amount of time a query takes and
decreases cost, because Data Federation reads and downloads less files from
AWS.

## Example

Consider an S3 bucket `metrics` with the following structure:

    
    
    metrics  
      
    |--hardware  
    |--software  
       |--computer  
       |--phone  
  
You can set a partition attribute for "metric type" by defining
`/metrics/{metric_type string}/*` in your configuration. If you issue a query
that contains `{metric_type: software}`, Data Federation only processes the
files with the prefix `/software` and ignores files with the prefix
`/hardware`.

You can then set a partition attribute for "software type" by defining
`/metrics/{metric_type string}/{software_type string}` in your configuration .
If you issue a query that contains `{metric_type: software, software_type:
computer}`, Data Federation ignores files with the prefix `/phone`.

For more information on mapping partition attributes to a collection
`databases.[n].collections.[n].dataSources.[n].path`, see Define Path for S3
Data.

## Data File Size

Each file that Atlas Data Federation handles requires a certain amount of
compute resources. If your federated database instance store contains many
small data files, the resources required compound and can reduce performance.
Alternatively, many large data files are problematic as Data Federation then
downloads and processes unnecessary data.

For most use cases, a performant file size is **100 to 200 MB**.

## Data File Format

Federated Database Instances support several data file formats. You can
improve performance by compressing certain file formats or by optimizing file
contents for your queries.

### Compression

When you compress data files, they take less time to download. Reduced
download time has a greater performance benefit than parsing uncompressed
data.

You can compress the following file formats using gzip:

  * JSON

  * BSON

  * CSV

  * TSV

### File Structure

Parquet, Avro, and ORC files contain metadata about the file itself so that an
application can traverse the file contents in different ways. If you structure
your data file to align with the queries you want to run, Atlas Data
Federation can leverage this metadata to quickly jump to the right data.

Of these formats, Parquet files provide the best performance and space
efficiency for federated database instance, as it is optimized to parse row
and column groups for Parquet.

← Use Partition Attribute TypesConfigure S3 Encryption →

