Docs Home → Launch & Manage MongoDB → MongoDB Atlas

# Define Path for S3 Data

Share Feedback

On this page

  * Overview
  * Supported Parsing Functions
  * Parsing Null Values from Filenames
  * Parsing Padded Numbers from Filenames
  * Examples
  * Parse Single Field from Filename
  * Parse Multiple Fields from Filename
  * Use Regular Expression to Parse Fields from Filename
  * Identify Ranges of Queryable Data from Filename
  * Identify Nested Fields from Filename
  * Create Partitions from ObjectIds
  * Create Partitions from File Path
  * Create Partitions from ISODate
  * Generate Dynamic Collection Names from File Path

## Overview

When you query documents in your S3 buckets, the Atlas Data Federation `path`
value allows Data Federation to map the data inside your document to the
filename of the document.

`path` supports parsing filenames in S3 buckets into computed fields. Data
Federation can add the computed fields to each document generated from the
parsed file. Data Federation can target queries on those computed field values
to only those file(s) with a matching file name. See Supported Parsing
Functions and Examples for more information.

`path` also supports creating partitions using partition attributes in the
path to the file. Data Federation can target queries on the parameter defined
in the partition attribute to only those files that contain the query in the
filename or partition prefix.

## Example

Consider the following files in your S3 bucket:

    
    
    /users/26/1234.json  
      
    /users/26/5678.json  
  
The JSON document `1234.json` contains the following:

    
    
    {  
      
      "name": "jane doe",  
      "age": 26,  
      "userID": "1234"  
    }  
  
your federated database instance configuration for the files in your S3 bucket
defines the following `path`:

    
    
    "path": "/users/{age int}/{userID string}"  
      
  
The following shows how Data Federation maps a query to the partitions created
from the `path` definition:

    
    
    db.users.findOne(                /users  
      
      {                                /40  
        "age": 26 -->   /26  
        "userID": "1234" ->     /1234.json  
      }                                  /5678.json  
    )  
  
If the computed field for the partition attribute already exists in your
document, Data Federation maps your query to the appropriate file. If the
computed field does not exist, Data Federation adds the computed field to the
document. For example, if the `age` field does not exist in `1234.json`, Data
Federation adds the `age` field and value to `1234.json`.

## Supported Parsing Functions

|  
  
|  
  
You can specify a single parsing function on the filename.

|

    
    
    | /path/to/files/{<fieldA> <data-type>}  
      
  
You can specify multiple parsing functions on the filename.

|

    
    
    | /path/to/files/{<fieldA> <data-type>}-{<fieldB> <data-type>}  
      
  
You can specify parsing functions alongside static strings in the filename:

|

    
    
    | /path/to/files/prefix-{<fieldA> <data-type>}-suffix  
      
  
You can specify dot (i.e. `.`) along the path to the filename.

|

    
    
    | /path/to/files/{<fieldA>.<fieldB> <data-type>}  
      
  
You can specify `ObjectIds` in the path to the files to create partitions.

|

    
    
    | /path/to/files/{objid objectid}  
      
  
You can specify a range of `ObjectIds` in the path to the files to create
partitions.

|

    
    
    | /path/to/files/{min(obj) objectid}-{max(obj) objectid}  
      
  
You can specify parsing functions along the path to the filename.

|

    
    
    | /path/{<fieldA> <data-type>}/{<fieldB> <data-type>}/{<fieldC> <data-type>}/*  
      
  
You can specify regex for `ISODate` along the path to the filename.

|

    
    
    | /path/to/files/{<field-name> isodate("<date-format>"):\\<regex>}  
      
  
## Note

When specifying the `path`:

  * Specify the data type for the partition attribute.

  * Ensure that the partition attribute type matches the data type to parse.

  * Use the delimiter specified in `delimiter`.

### Parsing Null Values from Filenames

Data Federation automatically parses an empty string (`""`) in the place of an
attribute in the file path as the BSON null value for all the Atlas Data
Federation attribute types except `string`. With a `string`, empty string
could either represent a BSON null value or a BSON empty string value. Atlas
Data Federation does not parse any BSON value for `string` attribute type.
This avoids adding a BSON value with a conflicting type to documents read from
S3.

## Example

Consider the following S3 federated database instance store:

    
    
    /records/january/1.json  
      
    /records/february/1.json  
    /records//1.json  
      
    For the path ``/records/{month string}/*``, Data Federation does not add any  
    computed fields for the ``month`` attribute to documents generated  
    from the third record in the above store.  
  
## Note

When writing files to S3, write BSON null values as empty strings in filenames
for all Atlas Data Federation attribute types.

### Parsing Padded Numbers from Filenames

File path can include numeric values that are padded with leading zeros. For
Data Federation to correctly parse padded numeric values for attribute types
like `int`, `epoch_millis`, and `epoch_secs`, specify the number of digits in
the value using regular expressions.

## Example

Consider a S3 store with the following files:

    
    
    |--users  
      
       |--001.json  
       |--002.json  
       ...  
  
The following `path` syntax uses a regular expression to specify the number of
digits in the filename. Data Federation identifies the portion of the path
that corresponds to the partition attribute and then maps that partition
attribute to a type `int`:

    
    
    /users/{user_id int:\\d{3}}  
      
  
## Examples

The following examples demonstrate how to parse filenames into computed
fields:

  * Parse Single Field from Filename

  * Parse Multiple Fields from Filename

  * Use Regular Expression to Parse Fields from Filename

  * Identify Ranges of Queryable Data from Filename

  * Identify Nested Fields from Filename

  * Create Partitions from ObjectIds

  * Create Partitions from File Path

  * Create Partitions from ISODate

  * Generate Dynamic Collection Names from File Path

### Parse Single Field from Filename

Consider a federated database instance store `accountingArchive` containing
files where the filename describes an invoice date. For example, the filename
`/invoices/1564671291998.json` contains the invoices for the UNIX timestamp
`1564671291998`.

The following `databases` object generates a field `invoiceDate` by parsing
the filename as a UNIX timestamp:

    
    
    "databases" : [  
      
      {  
        "name" : "accounting",  
        "collections" : [  
          {  
            "name" : "invoices",  
            "dataSources" : [  
              {  
                "storeName" : "accountingArchive",  
                "path" : "/invoices/{invoiceDate epoch_millis}"  
              }  
            ]  
          }  
        ]  
      }  
    ]  
  
Data Federation adds the computed field and value to each document generated
from the filename. Documents generated from the example filename includes a
field `invoiceDate: ISODate("2019-08-01T14:54:51Z")`. Queries on the
`invoiceDate` field can be targeted to only those files that match the
specified value.

### Parse Multiple Fields from Filename

Consider a federated database instance store `accountingArchive` containing
files where the filename describes an invoice number and invoice date. For
example, the filename `/invoices/MONGO12345-1564671291998.json` contains the
invoice `MONGODB12345` for the UNIX timestamp `1564671291998`.

The following `databases` object generates:

  * A field `invoiceNumber` by parsing the first segment of the filename as a string.

  * A field `invoiceDate` by parsing the second segment of the filename as a UNIX timestamp.

    
    
    "databases" : [  
      
      {  
        "name": "accounting",  
        "collections" : [  
          {  
            "name" : "invoices",  
            "dataSources" : [  
              {  
                "storeName" : "accountingArchive",  
                "path" : "/invoices/{invoiceNumber string}-{invoiceDate epoch_millis}"  
              }  
            ]  
          }  
        ]  
      }  
    ]  
  
Data Federation adds the computed fields and values to each document generated
from the filename. Documents generated from the example filename include the
following fields:

  * `invoiceNumber : "MONGODB12345"`

  * `invoiceDate : ISODate("2019-08-01T14:54:51Z")`

Queries that include _both_ the `invoiceNumber` and `invoiceDate` fields can
be targeted to only those files that match the specified values.

### Use Regular Expression to Parse Fields from Filename

Consider a federated database instance store `accountingArchive` containing
files where the filename describes an invoice number and invoice date. For
example, the filename `/invoices/MONGODB12345-20190102.json` contains the
invoice `MONGODB12345` for the date `20190102`.

The following `databases` object generates:

  * A field `invoiceNumber` by parsing the first segment of the filename as a string

  * A field `year` by using a regular expression to parse only the first 4 digits of the second segment of the filename as an int.

  * A field `month` by using a regular expression to parse only the next 2 digits of the second segment of the filename as an int.

  * A field `day` by using a regular expression to parse only the next 2 digits of the second segment of the filename as an int.

    
    
    "databases" : [  
      
      {  
        "name" : "accounting",  
        "collections" : [  
          {  
            "name" : "invoices",  
            "dataSources" : [  
              {  
                "storeName" : "accountingArchive",  
                "path" : "/invoices/{invoiceNumber string}-{year int:\\d{4}}{month int:\\d{2}}{day int:\\d{2}}"  
              }  
            ]  
          }  
        ]  
      }  
    ]  
  
Data Federation adds the computed fields and values to each document generated
from the filename. Documents generated from the example filename include the
following fields:

  * `invoiceNumber : "MONGODB12345"`

  * `year : 2019`

  * `month: 01`

  * `day: 02`

## Important

You must escape the regex string specified in the `path`. For example, if the
regex string includes double quotes, you must escape those values. Data
Federation supports the Package Syntax for regular expressions in the storage
configuration.

Queries that include _all_ generated fields can be targeted to only those
files that match the specified values.

## Tip

### See also:

Parsing Padded Numbers from Filenames

### Identify Ranges of Queryable Data from Filename

Consider a federated database instance store `accountingArchive` containing
files where the filename describes the range of data contained in the file.
For example, the filename `/invoices/1546367712000-1549046112000.json`
contains invoices for the time period between 2019-01-01 and 2019-01-02 with
the date range represented as milliseconds elapsed since the UNIX epoch.

The following `databases` object identifies the minimum time range as the
first segment of the filename and the maximum time range as the second segment
of the filename:

    
    
    "databases" : [  
      
      {  
        "name: "accounting",  
        "collections" : [  
          {  
            "name: "invoices",  
            "dataSources" : [  
              {  
                "storeName" : "accountingArchive",  
                "path" : "/invoices/{min(invoiceDate) epoch_millis}-{max(invoiceDate) epoch_millis}"  
              }  
            ]  
          }  
        ]  
      }  
    ]  
  
When Data Federation receives a query on the `"invoiceDate"` field, it uses
the specified path to identify which files contain the data that matches the
query.

Queries on the `invoiceDate` field can be targeted to only those files whose
range captures the specified value, including the `min` and `max` date.

## Important

The field specified for the min and max ranges _must_ exist in every document
contained in the file to avoid unexpected or undesired behavior. Data
Federation does _not_ perform any validation that the underlying data conforms
to this constraint.

## Tip

### See also:

Parsing Padded Numbers from Filenames

### Identify Nested Fields from Filename

Data Federation supports querying nested data when the nested data value is
also the filename. You can use the dot operator (i.e. `.`) in your `path` to
map the partitions attributes in your storage configuration to nested fields
in your documents.

Consider a federated database instance store `accountingArchive`. The
federated database instance store contains files with names that match values
of nested fields in the documents. For example:

    
    
    accountingArchive  
      
    |--invoices  
       |--January.json  
       |--February.json  
       ...  
  
Suppose the `January.json` file contains a document with the following fields:

    
    
    {  
      
      "invoice": {  
         "invoiceNumber" : "MONGODB12345",  
         "year" : 2019,  
         "month": "January", //value matches filename  
         "date": 02  
      },  
      "vendor": "MONGODB",  
      ...  
    }  
  
The following `databases` object identifies `month` as a nested field inside a
document. The `databases` object also identifies the value of `month` as the
name of the file that contains the document.

    
    
    "databases" : [  
      
      {  
        "name" : "accounting",  
        "collections" : [  
          {  
            "name" : "invoices",  
            "dataSources" : [  
              {  
                "storeName" : "accountingArchive",  
                "path" : "/invoices/{invoice.month string}"  
              }  
            ]  
          }  
        ]  
      }  
    ]  
  
When Atlas Data Federation receives a query on a specific month such as
`January`, it uses the specified path to identify which file contains the data
that matches the query.

### Create Partitions from ObjectIds

You can specify ObjectIds in the path to the files. For files that contain
`ObjectId` in the filename, Atlas Data Federation creates partitions for each
`ObjectId`.

Consider the following federated database instance store, `accountingArchive`.
This data store contains files that include `ObjectId` in the filename:

    
    
    accountingArchive  
      
    |--invoices  
       |--507f1f77bcf86cd799439011.json  
       |--507f1f77bcf86cd799439012.json  
       |--507f1f77bcf86cd799439013.json  
       |--507f1f77bcf86cd799439014.json  
       |--507f1f77bcf86cd799439015.json  
  
The following `databases` object creates partitions for the `ObjectIds`.

    
    
    "databases" : [  
      
      {  
        "name" : "accounting",  
        "collections" : [  
          {  
            "name" : "invoices",  
            "dataSources" : [  
              {  
                "storeName" : "accountingArchive",  
                "path" : "/invoices/{objid objectid}"  
              }  
            ]  
          }  
        ]  
      }  
    ]  
  
Or, suppose the federated database instance store `accountingArchive` contains
files that include a range of `ObjectIds` in the filename. For example:

    
    
    accountingArchive  
      
    |--invoices  
       |--507f1f77bcf86cd799439011-507f1f77bcf86cd799439020.json  
       |--507f1f77bcf86cd799439021-507f1f77bcf86cd799439030.json  
       |--507f1f77bcf86cd799439031-507f1f77bcf86cd799439040.json  
  
The following `databases` object creates partitions for the given range of
`ObjectIds`.

    
    
    "databases" : [  
      
      {  
        "name" : "accounting",  
        "collections" : [  
          {  
            "name" : "invoices",  
            "dataSources" : [  
              {  
                "storeName" : "accountingArchive",  
                "path" : "/invoices/{min(obj) objectid}-{max(obj) objectid}"  
              }  
            ]  
          }  
        ]  
      }  
    ]  
  
When Data Federation receives a query on the `ObjectId`, it uses the specified
path to identify which file contains the data that matches the query.

### Create Partitions from File Path

You can specify parsing functions on any path leading up to the filename. Each
computed field is based on a parsing function along the path. When querying
the data, Atlas Data Federation converts each computed field to a partition.
Partitions, which are synonymous with subdirectories, are then used to filter
files with increasing precision.

Consider a federated database instance store `accountingArchive` with the
following directory structure:

    
    
    invoices  
      
    |--MONGO12345  
       |--2019  
          |--01  
             |--02  
  
The following `databases` object creates the `invoiceNumber`, `year`, `month`,
and `day` partitions with a small set of filtered files:

    
    
    "databases" : [  
      
      {  
        "name" : "accounting",  
        "collections" : [  
          {  
            "name" : "invoices",  
            "dataSources" : [  
              {  
                "storeName" : "accountingArchive",  
                "path" : "/invoices/{invoiceNumber string}/{year int}/{month int:\\d{2}}/{day int:\\d{2}}/*"  
              }  
            ]  
          }  
        ]  
      }  
    }  
  
## Tip

### See also:

Parsing Padded Numbers from Filenames

### Create Partitions from ISODate

You can specify ISODate in the path to the files. For files that contain
`ISODate` in the filename, Atlas Data Federation creates partitions for each
`ISODate`.

Consider the following federated database instance store, `accountingArchive`.
This data store contains files that include `ISODate` in the filename:

    
    
    accountingArchive  
      
    |--invoices  
       |--01_02_2022_2301.json  
       |--02_02_2022_2301.json  
       |--03_02_2022_2301.json  
       |--04_02_2022_2301.json  
       |--05_02_2022_2301.json  
  
The following `databases` object creates partitions for the `ISODate`. The
`path` demonstrates how to use regex for the date format if the date is not in
RFC 3339 format.

    
    
    "databases" : [  
      
      {  
        "name" : "accounting",  
        "collections" : [  
          {  
            "name" : "invoices",  
            "dataSources" : [  
              {  
                "storeName" : "accountingArchive",  
                "path" : "/invoices/creationDate isodate('01_02_2006_1504'):\\d{2}_\\d{2}_\\d{4}_\\d{4}.json"  
              }  
            ]  
          }  
        ]  
      }  
    ]  
  
To learn more about other supported formats, see Use Partition Attribute
Types.

### Generate Dynamic Collection Names from File Path

Consider a federated database instance store `accountingArchive` with the
following directory structure:

    
    
    invoices  
      
    |--SuperSoftware  
    |--UltraSoftware  
    |--MegaSoftware  
  
The following `databases` object generates a dynamic collection name from the
file path:

    
    
    "databases" : [  
      
      {  
        "name" : "invoices",  
        "collections" : [  
          {  
            "name" : "*",  
            "dataSources" : [  
              {  
                "storeName" : "accountingArchive",  
                "path" : "/invoices/{collectionName()}/"  
              }  
            ]  
          }  
        ]  
      }  
    ]  
  
When applied to the example directory structure, the path results in the
following collections:

  * SuperSoftware

  * UltraSoftware

  * MegaSoftware

Or, consider a federated database instance store `accountingArchive` with the
following files:

    
    
    /orders/MONGODB/invoices/January.json  
      
    /orders/MONGODB/purchaseOrders/January.json  
    /orders/MONGODB/invoices/February.json  
    ...  
  
The following `databases` object generates a dynamic collection name from the
file path:

    
    
    "databases" : [  
      
      {  
        "name" : "invoices",  
        "collections" : [  
          {  
            "name" : "*",  
            "dataSources" : [  
              {  
                "storeName" : "accountingArchive",  
                "path" : "/orders/MONGODB/{collectionName()}/{invoiceMonth string}.json/"  
              }  
            ]  
          }  
        ]  
      }  
    ]  
  
When applied to the example filenames, the path results in the following
collections:

  * `invoices`

  * `purchaseOrders`

## Note

When you dynamically generate collections from filenames, the number of
collections is not accurately reported in the Data Federation view.

← Generate Wildcard CollectionsUse Partition Attribute Types →

