Docs Home → Launch & Manage MongoDB → MongoDB Atlas

# Review Alert Conditions

Share Feedback

On this page

  * Host Alerts
  * Query Targeting Alerts
  * Cloud Backup Alerts
  * Replica Set Alerts
  * Sharded Cluster Alerts
  * App Services Alerts
  * Serverless Alerts
  * User Alerts
  * Project Alerts
  * Billing Alerts
  * Federation Alerts
  * Encryption at Rest Alerts
  * Maintenance Window Alerts

This page describes the conditions for which you can trigger alerts. You
specify conditions and thresholds when configuring alerts. To learn more, see
Alerts Workflow.

## Note

`M0` free clusters and `M2/M5` shared clusters only trigger alerts related to
the metrics supported by those clusters. See Atlas M0 (Free Cluster), M2, and
M5 Limitations for complete documentation on `M0/M2/M5` alert and metric
limitations.

## Host Alerts

The conditions in this section apply if you select Host as the alert target
when configuring the alert. You can apply the condition to all hosts or to
specific type of host, such as primaries or config servers.

## Important

During Live Migration, Atlas disables host alerts.

### Advisor

`Host has index suggestions`

    

Raised if Performance Advisor has index suggestions for the host.

If the query targeting ratio for a host is high for a period of 10 minutes,
Performance Advisor checks the host for inefficient queries and possible
indexes to improve performance. If Performance Advisor determines that the
host benefits from one or more indexes, this alert triggers and directs you to
create the suggested indexes.

This alert is only available for `M10+` clusters, and is enabled by default
for `M10+` clusters that have Performance Advisor enabled. This alert does not
trigger for clusters where Performance Advisor is disabled.

### Asserts

The following alert conditions measure the rate of asserts for a MongoDB
process, as collected from the MongoDB `serverStatus` command's `asserts`
document. You can view asserts through cluster monitoring.

`Asserts: Msg is`

    

Raised if the rate of message asserts meets the specified threshold. Message
asserts are internal server errors. Stack traces are logged for these.

`Asserts: Regular is`

    

Raised if the rate of regular asserts meets the specified threshold.

`Asserts: User is`

    

Raised if the rate of errors generated by users meets the specified threshold.

`Asserts: Warning is`

    

Raised if the rate of warnings meets the specified threshold.

### Atlas Search

The following alert conditions measure the amount of CPU and memory used by
Atlas Search processes. You can view Atlas Search metrics through cluster
monitoring.

`Atlas Search: Index Replication Lag is`

    

Raised if the approximate number of milliseconds that Atlas Search is behind
in replicating changes from the oplog of `mongod` is above or below the
threshold.

`Atlas Search: Index Size on Disk is`

    

Raised if the total size of all Atlas Search indexes on disk in bytes is above
or below the threshold.

`Atlas Search: Max Number of Lucene Docs is`

    

Raised if the upper bound on the number of Lucene docs used to store Atlas
Search indexes for a given replica set or shard is above the threshold.

`Atlas Search: Number of Error Queries is`

    

Raised if the number of queries for which Atlas Search is unable to return a
response is above or below the threshold.

`Atlas Search: Number of Index Fields is`

    

Raised if the total number of unique fields present in the Atlas Search index
is above or below the threshold.

`Atlas Search: Number of Successful Queries is`

    

Raised if the number of queries for which Atlas Search successfully returned a
response is above or below the threshold.

`Atlas Search: Total Number of Queries is`

    

Raised if the number of queries submitted to Atlas Search is above or below
the threshold.

`Atlas Search Opcounter: Delete is`

    

Raised if the total number of documents or fields (specified in the index
definition) removed per second is above or below the threshold.

`Atlas Search Opcounter: Getmore is`

    

Raised if the total number of `getmore` commands run on all Atlas Search
queries per second is above or below the threshold.

`Atlas Search Opcounter: Insert is`

    

Raised if the total number of documents or fields (specified in the index
definition) that Atlas Search indexes per second is above or below the
threshold.

`Atlas Search Opcounter: Update is`

    

Raised if the total number of documents or fields (specified in the index
definition) that Atlas Search updates per second is above or below the
threshold.

`Insufficient disk space to support rebuilding search indexes`

    

Raised if your database deployment runs out of enough free disk space to
support your Atlas Search indexes.

`Search Memory: Resident is`

    

Raised if the total bytes of resident memory occupied by the Atlas Search
process is above or below the threshold.

`Search Memory: Shared is`

    

Raised if the total bytes of shared memory occupied by the Atlas Search
process is above or below the threshold.

`Search Memory: Virtual is`

    

Raised if the total bytes of virtual memory occupied by the Atlas Search
process is above or below the threshold.

`Search Process: CPU (Kernel) % is`

    

Raised if the percentage of time the CPU spent servicing operating system
calls for the Atlas Search process is above the threshold.

`Search Process: CPU (User) % is`

    

Raised if the percentage of time the CPU spent servicing the Atlas Search
process is above the threshold.

`Search Process: Disk space used is`

    

Raised if the total bytes of disk space used by the Atlas Search process is
above the threshold.

`Search Process: Ran out of memory`

    

Raised if the search process (`mongot`) runs out of memory. If the search
process runs out of memory, indexing and queries fail.

### Average Execution Time

The following alert conditions measure the average execution time of reads,
writes, or commands for a MongoDB process, as collected from the MongoDB
`serverStatus` command's `opLatencies` document. You can view asserts through
cluster monitoring.

`Average Execution Time: Commands is`

    

Average execution time for command operations meets your specified threshold.

`Average Execution Time: Reads is`

    

Average execution time for read operations meets your specified threshold.

`Average Execution Time: Writes is`

    

Average execution time for write operations meets your specified threshold.

### Opcounter

The following alert conditions measure the rate of database operations on a
MongoDB process since the process last started, as collected from the MongoDB
`serverStatus` command's `opcounters` document. You can view opcounters
through cluster monitoring.

`Opcounter: Cmd is`

    

Raised if the rate of commands performed meets the specified threshold.

`Opcounter: Delete is`

    

Raised if the rate of deletes meets the specified threshold.

`Opcounter: Getmores is`

    

Raised if the rate of `getmore` operations to retrieve the next cursor batch
meets the specified threshold.

## Tip

### See also:

To learn more, see Cursor Batches in the MongoDB manual.

`Opcounter: Insert is`

    

Raised if the rate of inserts meets the specified threshold.

`Opcounter: Query is`

    

Raised if the rate of queries meets the specified threshold.

`Opcounter: Update is`

    

Raised if the rate of updates meets the specified threshold.

### Opcounter - Repl

The following alert conditions measure the rate of database operations on
MongoDB secondaries, as collected from the MongoDB `serverStatus` command's
`opcountersRepl` document. You can view these metrics on the Opcounters - Repl
chart, accessed through cluster monitoring.

`Opcounter: Repl Cmd is`

    

Raised if the rate of replicated commands meets the specified threshold.

`Opcounter: Repl Delete is`

    

Raised if the rate of replicated deletes meets the specified threshold.

`Opcounter: Repl Insert is`

    

Raised if the rate of replicated inserts meets the specified threshold.

`Opcounter: Repl Update is`

    

Raised if the rate of replicated updates meets the specified threshold.

### Operations Scan and Order

You might set alerts for the scan and order operations for a MongoDB process.

`Operations: Scan and Order is`

    

Average rate per second over your specified threshold of queries that return
sorted results that can't perform the sort operation using an index.

## Note

### How It's Measured

MongoDB reports on the Replication Oplog using the
`metrics.operation.scanAndOrder` document that the serverStatus command
returns.

### Atlas Free Clusters

`Logical Size is`

    

Raised if the total size of the data and indexes is outside the specified
threshold.

 _Applicable for Atlas Free Clusters Only_

### Memory

The following alert conditions measure memory for a MongoDB process, as
collected from the MongoDB `serverStatus` command's `mem` document. You can
view these metrics on the Atlas Memory and Non-Mapped Virtual Memory charts,
accessed through cluster monitoring.

`Memory: Computed is`

    

Raised if the size of virtual memory that is not accounted for by memory-
mapping meets the specified threshold. If this number is very high (multiple
gigabytes), it indicates that excessive memory is being used outside of memory
mapping.

## Tip

### See also:

To learn how to use this metric, view the Non-Mapped Virtual Memory chart and
click the chart's i icon.

`Memory: Resident is`

    

Raised if the size of the resident memory meets the specified threshold. It is
typical over time, on a dedicated database server, for the size of the
resident memory to approach the amount of physical RAM on the box.

`Memory: Virtual is`

    

Raised if the size of virtual memory for the `mongod` process meets the
specified threshold. You can use this alert to flag excessive memory outside
of memory mapping.

## Tip

### See also:

To learn more, click the Memory chart's i icon.

`System Memory: Available is`

    

Raised if the amount of available system memory drops below the specified
threshold.

`System Memory: Max Available is`

    

Raised if the maximum amount of available system memory drops below the
specified threshold.

`System Memory: Max Used is`

    

Raised if the maximum system memory usage value meets the specified threshold.

`System Memory: Used is`

    

Raised if the total system memory used minus buffers, cached, and free memory
meets the specified threshold.

### Connections

The following alert condition measures connections to a MongoDB process, as
collected from the MongoDB `serverStatus` command's `connections` document.
You can view this metric on the Atlas Connections chart, accessed through
cluster monitoring.

`Connections is`

    

Raised if the number of active connections to the host meets the specified
average.

`Connections % of configured limit is`

    

Raised if the number of open connections to the host exceeds the specified
percentage.

### Queues

The following alert conditions measure operations waiting on locks, as
collected from the MongoDB `serverStatus` command's `globalLock` document. You
can view these metrics on the Atlas Queues chart, accessed through cluster
monitoring.

`Queues: Readers is`

    

Raised if the number of operations waiting on a read lock meets the specified
average.Replication Oplog Window is

`Queues: Total is`

    

Raised if the number of operations waiting on a lock of any type meets the
specified average.

`Queues: Writers is`

    

Raised if the number of operations waiting on a write lock meets the specified
average.

### Page Faults

The following alert condition measures the rate of page faults for a MongoDB
process, as collected from the MongoDB `serverStatus` command's
`extra_info.page_faults` field.

`Page Faults is`

    

Raised if the rate of page faults (whether or not an exception is thrown)
meets the specified threshold. You can view this metric on the Atlas Page
Faults chart, accessed through cluster monitoring.

### Cursors

The following alert conditions measure the number of cursors for a MongoDB
process, as collected from the MongoDB `serverStatus` command's
`metrics.cursor` document. You can view these metrics on the Atlas Cursors
chart, accessed through cluster monitoring.

`Cursors: Open is`

    

Raised if the number of cursors the server is maintaining for clients meets
the specified average.

`Cursors: Timed Out is`

    

Raised if the number of timed-out cursors the server is maintaining for
clients meets the specified average.

### Network

The following alert conditions measure throughput for MongoDB process, as
collected from the MongoDB `serverStatus` command's `network` document. You
can view these metrics on a host's Network chart, accessed through cluster
monitoring.

`Network: Bytes In is`

    

Raised if the number of bytes sent _to_ MongoDB meets the specified threshold.

`Network: Bytes Out is`

    

Raised if the number of bytes sent _from_ MongoDB meets the specified
threshold.

`Network: Num Requests is`

    

Raised if the number of requests sent to MongoDB meets the specified average.

### Replication Oplog

The following alert conditions apply to the MongoDB process's oplog. You can
view these metrics on the following charts, accessed through cluster
monitoring:

  * Oplog GB/Hour

  * Replication Headroom

  * Replication Lag

  * Replication Oplog Window

The following alert conditions apply to the oplog:

`Oplog Data Per Hour is`

    

Raised when the amount of data per hour being written to a primary's oplog
meets the specified threshold.

`Replication Headroom is`

    

Raised when the difference between the sync source member's oplog window and
the replication lag time on the secondary meets the specified threshold.

`Replication Lag is`

    

Raised if the approximate amount of time that the secondary is behind the
primary meets the specified threshold. Atlas calculates replication lag using
the approach described in Check the Replication Lag in the MongoDB manual.

`Replication Oplog Window is`

    

Raised if the approximate amount of time available in the primary's
replication oplog meets the specified threshold.

### DB Storage

The following alert conditions apply to database storage, as collected for a
MongoDB process by the MongoDB dbStats command. For details on how Atlas
handles reaching database storage limits, refer to the FAQ page. These
conditions are based on the summed total of **all databases** on the MongoDB
process:

## Note

Atlas retrieves database metrics every 20 minutes by default but adjusts
frequency when necessary to reduce the impact on database performance.

`DB Data Size is`

    

Raised if approximate size of all documents (and their paddings) meets the
specified threshold.

`DB Storage is`

    

Raised if the allocated storage meets the specified threshold. This alert
condition can be viewed on a host's DB Storage chart, accessed through cluster
monitoring.

### WiredTiger Storage Engine

The following alert conditions apply to the MongoDB process's WiredTiger
storage engine, as collected from the MongoDB `serverStatus` command's
`wiredTiger.cache` and `wiredTiger.concurrentTransactions` documents.

You can view these metrics on the following charts, accessed through cluster
monitoring:

  * Cache Activity

  * Cache Usage

  * Tickets Available

The following are the alert conditions that apply to WiredTiger:

`Cache: Bytes Read Into Cache is`

    

Raised when the number of bytes read into the WiredTiger cache meets the
specified threshold.

`Cache: Bytes Written From Cache is`

    

Raised when the number of bytes written from the WiredTiger cache meets the
specified threshold.

`Cache: Dirty Bytes is`

    

Raised when the number of dirty bytes in the WiredTiger cache meets the
specified threshold.

`Cache: Used Bytes is`

    

Raised when the number of used bytes in the WiredTiger cache meets the
specified threshold.

`Tickets Available: Reads is`

    

Raised if the number of read tickets available to the WiredTiger storage
engine meet the specified threshold.

`Tickets Available: Writes is`

    

Raised if the number of write tickets available to the WiredTiger storage
engine meet the specified threshold.

### System and Disk Alerts

The following alert conditions measure usage on your Atlas server clusters:

## Note

Currently, Atlas uses a single partition for data, index, and journal files.
Even though the alerts reference individual paritions, they point to the same
metric.

`Disk utilization % on Data Partition is`

    

The percentage of time during which requests are being issued to any partition
that contains the MongoDB collection's data. This includes requests from any
process, not just MongoDB processes. The threshold is specified when the alert
is created.

`Disk utilization % on Index Partition is`

    

The percentage of time during which requests are being issued to any partition
that contains the MongoDB index data. This includes requests from any process,
not just MongoDB processes.

`Disk utilization % on Journal Partition is`

    

The percentage of time during which requests are being issued to the partition
that contains the MongoDB journal, if journaling is enabled. This includes
requests from any process, not just MongoDB processes.

`Disk Queue depth on Data Partition is`

    

Raised if the average length of the queue of requests issued to the data
partition that MongoDB uses exceeds the specified threshold.

`Disk Queue depth on Index Partition is`

    

Raised if the average length of the queue of requests issued to the index
partition that MongoDB uses exceeds the specified threshold.

`Disk Queue depth on Journal Partition is`

    

Raised if the average length of the queue of requests issued to the journal
partition that MongoDB uses exceeds the specified threshold.

`Disk read IOPS on Data Partition is`

    

Raised if the average number of disk read operations per second exceeds the
specified threshold.

`Disk read IOPS on Index Partition is`

    

Raised if the average number of disk read operations per second exceeds the
specified threshold.

`Disk read IOPS on Journal Partition is`

    

Raised if the average number of disk read operations per second exceeds the
specified threshold.

`Disk read latency on Data Partition is`

    

Raised if the amount of latency on disk read operations exceeds the specified
threshold.

`Disk read latency on Index Partition is`

    

Raised if the amount of latency on disk read operations exceeds the specified
threshold.

`Disk read latency on Journal Partition is`

    

Raised if the amount of latency on disk read operations exceeds the specified
threshold.

`Disk space % used on Data Partition is`

    

The percentage of disk space used on any partition that contains the MongoDB
collection's data.

To find possible solutions for this alert, see Alert Resolutions.

`Disk space % used on Index Partition is`

    

The percentage of disk space used on any partition that contains the MongoDB
index data.

To find possible solutions for this alert, see Alert Resolutions.

`Disk space % used on Journal Partition is`

    

The percentage of disk space used on the partition that contains the MongoDB
journal, if journaling is enabled.

To find possible solutions for this alert, see Alert Resolutions.

`Disk write IOPS on Data Partition is`

    

Raised if the average number of disk write operations per second exceeds the
specified threshold.

`Disk write IOPS on Index Partition is`

    

Raised if the average number of disk write operations per second exceeds the
specified threshold.

`Disk write IOPS on Journal Partition is`

    

Raised if the average number of disk write operations per second exceeds the
specified threshold.

`Disk write latency on Data Partition is`

    

Raised if the amount of latency on disk write operations exceeds the specified
threshold.

`Disk write latency on Index Partition is`

    

Raised if the amount of latency on disk write operations exceeds the specified
threshold.

`Disk write latency on Journal Partition is`

    

Raised if the amount of latency on disk write operations exceeds the specified
threshold.

`Max disk utilization % on Data Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum percentage of time during which requests are being
issued to any partition that contains the MongoDB collection data exceeds the
specified threshold.

`Max disk utilization % on Index Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum percentage of time during which requests are being
issued to any partition that contains the MongoDB index data exceeds the
specified threshold.

`Max disk utilization % on Journal Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum percentage of time during which requests are being
issued to the partition that contains the MongoDB journal exceeds the
specified threshold.

`Max disk queue depth on Data Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum average length of the queue of requests issued to the
data partition that MongoDB uses exceeds the specified threshold.

`Max disk queue depth on Index Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum average length of the queue of requests issued to the
index partition that MongoDB uses exceeds the specified threshold.

`Max disk queue depth on Journal Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum average length of the queue of requests issued to the
journal partition that MongoDB uses exceeds the specified threshold.

`Max disk read IOPS on Index Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum average number of disk read operations per second
exceeds the specified threshold.

`Max disk read IOPS on Data Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum average number of disk read operations per second
exceeds the specified threshold.

`Max disk read IOPS on Journal Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum average number of disk read operations per second
exceeds the specified threshold.

`Max disk read latency on Data Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum amount of latency on disk read operations exceeds the
specified threshold.

`Max disk read latency on Index Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum amount of latency on disk read operations exceeds the
specified threshold.

`Max disk read latency on Journal Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum amount of latency on disk read operations exceeds the
specified threshold.

`Max disk space % used on Data Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum percentage of disk space used on any partition that
contains the MongoDB collection's data exceeds the specified threshold.

`Max disk space % used on Index Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum percentage of disk space used on any partition that
contains the MongoDB index data exceeds the specified threshold.

`Max disk space % used on Journal Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum percentage of disk space used on the partition that
contains the MongoDB journal exceeds the specified threshold.

`Max disk write IOPS on Data Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum average number of disk write operations per second
exceeds the specified threshold.

`Max disk write IOPS on Index Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum average number of disk write operations per second
exceeds the specified threshold.

`Max disk write IOPS on Journal Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum average number of disk write operations per second
exceeds the specified threshold.

`Max disk write latency on Data Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum amount of latency on disk write operations exceeds the
specified threshold.

`Max disk write latency on Index Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum amount of latency on disk write operations exceeds the
specified threshold.

`Max disk write latency on Journal Partition is`

    

Raised if the maximum amount of latency on disk write operations exceeds the
specified threshold.

`Max System Network In is`

    

Raised if the maximum number of bytes sent _to_ MongoDB meets the specified
threshold.

`Max System Network Out is`

    

Raised if the maximum number of bytes sent _from_ MongoDB meets the specified
threshold.

`System: CPU (Steal) % is`

    

 _Applicable when the EC2 cluster credit balance is exhausted._

The percentage by which the CPU usage exceeds the guaranteed baseline CPU
credit accumulation rate. CPU credits are units of CPU utilization that you
accumulate. The credits accumulate at a constant rate to provide a guaranteed
level of performance. These credits can be used for additional CPU
performance. When the credit balance is exhausted, only the guaranteed
baseline of CPU performance is provided, and the amount of excess is shown as
steal percent.

## Note

Atlas triggers this alert only for AWS EC2 clusters that support Burstable
Performance. Currently, these are `M10` and `M20` cluster types.

`System: CPU (User) % is`

    

The CPU usage of the processes on the node, normalized by the number of CPUs.
This value is scaled to a range of 0-100%.

`System: Max CPU (Steal) % is`

    

Raised if the maximum percentage by which the CPU usage exceeds the guaranteed
baseline CPU credit accumulation rate exceeds the specified threshold.

`System: Max CPU (User) % is`

    

Raised if the maximum CPU usage of the processes on the node, normalized by
the number of CPUs, exceeds the specified threshold.

`System Network In is`

    

Raised if the average rate of physical bytes received per second by the `eth0`
network interface reaches the specified threshold.

`System Network Out is`

    

Raised if the average rate of physical bytes transmitted per second by the
`eth0` network interface reaches the specified threshold.

### Restarts

`Restarts in Last Hour is`

    

Raised if the number of times a host restarts within the previous hour exceeds
the specified threshold.

### Host Down

`Host is Down`

    

Raised if Atlas is unable to reach a host for several minutes.

## Important

You should only configure this alert if you depend on secondary reads. For
more information on secondary reads, see Query using Replica Set Tags and Read
Preference.

This alert is generally triggered by one of the following conditions:

  * The cluster has experienced a failure and is being auto-healed.

  * The cluster could not be reached because of a network issue.

MongoDB Atlas checks that the downtime did not occur because of your actions,
such as rolling index builds. If MongoDB Atlas confirms that the downtime was
not intentional, MongoDB Atlas attempts to replace the affected node. If
failures occur, Atlas clusters maintain node availability for both reads and
writes as long as a majority of nodes are running. To learn more, see How does
MongoDB Atlas deliver high availability?.

### Swap

The following alert conditions apply to swap space usage:

`Swap Usage: Free is`

    

Raised if the amount of available swap space drops below the specified
threshold.

`Swap Usage: Max Free is`

    

Raised if the maximum amount of available swap space drops below the specified
threshold.

`Swap Usage: Max Used is`

    

Raised if the maximum total amount of swap space in use reaches the specified
threshold.

`Swap Usage: Used is`

    

Raised if the total amount of swap space in use reaches the specified
threshold.

### Inapplicable Host Conditions

The following host conditions do not apply to Atlas. Atlas will not generate
alerts for the following conditions:

  * Accesses Not In Memory: Total is

  * Background Flush Average is

  * B-tree: accesses is

  * B-tree: hits is

  * B-tree: misses is

  * B-tree: miss ratio is

  * Cursors: Client Cursors Size is

  * Effective Lock % is

  * Journaling Commits in Write Lock is

  * Journaling MB is

  * Journaling Write Data Files MB is

  * Memory: Mapped is

  * Page Fault Exceptions Thrown: Total is

## Query Targeting Alerts

The following alerts apply to indexes on your collections. Either alert might
indicate a missing or inefficient index.

## Tip

### See also:

To learn more about indexing to improve performance, see Indexing Strategies.

`Query Targeting: Scanned / Returned`

    

Raised if the ratio of index keys scanned to documents returned meets or
exceeds the specified threshold.

`Query Targeting: Scanned Objects / Returned`

    

Raised if the ratio of documents scanned to documents returned meets or
exceeds the specified threshold.

## Note

The changestream cursors that the Atlas Search process (`mongot`) uses for
replication can contribute to the query targeting ratio and trigger query
targeting alerts if the ratio is high.

## Cloud Backup Alerts

The following alerts apply to Cloud Backup snapshots.

`Backup restore failed`

    

Raised when a restore fails.

`Backup restore succeeded`

    

Raised when a restore succeeds.

`Fallback snapshot failed`

    

Raised when a fallback snapshot fails.

`Fallback snapshot taken`

    

Raised when a regular backup fails, but Atlas was able to take a fallback
snapshot.

## Tip

### See also:

Fallback Snapshots.

`Snapshot download request failed`

    

Raised when a download request fails.

`Snapshot schedule fell behind`

    

Raised when a snapshot hasn't been taken over configured period.

`Snapshot taken successfully`

    

Raised when a snapshot was taken successfully.

## Replica Set Alerts

The following alert conditions apply to replica sets:

`Number of elections in last hour is > X`

    

Raised when the number of elections that have occurred in the last hour
exceeds the user-specified value of `X`. The value of `X` is set when you
create the alert. This alert might indicate that the cluster's replication is
not in a healthy state, as evidenced by constant elections.

`Replica set elected a new primary`

    

Raised when a replica set elects a new primary.

`Replica set has no primary`

    

Raised when a replica set does not have a primary. Specifically, when none of
the members of a replica set have a status of `PRIMARY`, the alert triggers.
For example, this condition might arise when a set has an even number of
voting members resulting in a tie.

If Atlas collects data during an election, this alert might send a false
positive. To prevent such false positives, set the alert configuration's after
waiting interval (in the configuration's Send to section).

To find possible solutions for this alert, see Alert Resolutions.

## Sharded Cluster Alerts

The following alert condition applies to sharded clusters:

`Cluster is missing an active mongos`

    

Raised if Atlas cannot reach a `mongos` for the cluster.

## App Services Alerts

The following alert conditions apply to Atlas App Services.

`An overall request rate limit has been hit`

    

Raised when the number of concurrent requests exceeds the limit. This alert
indicates that an app might be making an unexpectedly high number of requests.

`Auth Login Fail is`

    

Raised if the number of failed client login requests per second meets the
specified threshold.

`Endpoints Compute Time is`

    

Raised if the HTTPS endpoints compute time per second meets the specified
threshold.

`Endpoints Egress Bytes is`

    

Raised if the HTTPS endpoints data egress bytes per second meets the specified
threshold.

`Failed Requests - Endpoints is`

    

Raised if the number of HTTPS endpoints requests that fail per second meets
the specified threshold.

`Failed Requests - GraphQL is`

    

Raised if the number of GraphQL requests that fail per second meets the
specified threshold.

`Failed Requests - Overall is`

    

Raised if the number of total requests that fail per second meets the
specified threshold.

`Failed Requests - SDK (Functions) is`

    

Raised if the number of SDK Function requests that fail per second meets the
specified threshold.

`Failed Requests - Sync is`

    

Raised if the number of failed Atlas Device Sync requests per second meets the
specified threshold.

`Failed Requests - Triggers is`

    

Raised if the number of Triggers requests that fail per second meets the
specified threshold.

`GraphQL Compute Time is`

    

Raised if the GraphQL compute time per second meets the specified threshold.

`GraphQL Egress Bytes is`

    

Raised if the GraphQL data egress bytes per second meets the specified
threshold.

`GraphQL Request Duration P95 is`

    

Raised if the 95th percentile of duration in milliseconds for GraphQL requests
meets the specified threshold.

`HTTP Endpoint Request Duration P95 is`

    

Raised if the 95th percentile of duration in milliseconds for HTTPS endpoint
requests meets the specified threshold.

`MQL Request Duration P95 is`

    

Raised if the 95th percentile of duration in milliseconds for MQL requests
meets the specified threshold.

`Overall Compute Time is`

    

Raised if the overall compute time per second meets the specified threshold.

`Overall Egress Bytes is`

    

Raised if the overall data egress bytes per second meets the specified
threshold.

`SDK Functions Compute Time is`

    

Raised if the SDK Functions compute time per second meets the specified
threshold.

`SDK Functions Egress Bytes is`

    

Raised if the SDK Functions data egress bytes per second meets the specified
threshold.

`SDK Functions Request Duration P95 is`

    

Raised if the 95th percentile of duration in milliseconds for SDK function
requests meets the specified threshold.

`SDK MQL Compute Time is`

    

Raised if the SDK MQL compute time per second meets the specified threshold.

`SDK MQL Egress Bytes is`

    

Raised if the SDK MQL data egress bytes per second meets the specified
threshold.

`Session Ended - Sync is`

    

Raised if the number of sessions ended per second during Atlas Device Sync
meets the specified threshold.

`Sync Client Bootstrap Time is`

    

Raised if the 95th percentile of the bootstrap time for the Atlas Device Sync
client meets the specified threshold.

`Sync Client Uploads that failed is`

    

Raised if the number of uploads that failed per second on the Atlas Device
Sync client meets the specified threshold.

`Sync Client Uploads that are invalid`

    

Raised if the number of invalid uploads per second on the Atlas Device Sync
client meets the specified threshold.

`Sync Current Oplog Lag Sum is`

    

Raised if the approximate amount of time that the Atlas Device Sync is behind
the MongoDB oplog meets the specified threshold.

`Sync Egress Bytes is`

    

Raised if the Atlas Device Sync data egress bytes per second meets the
specified threshold.

`Sync Num Unsyncable Docs % is`

    

Raised is the number of App Services unsyncable documents meets the specified
threshold.

`Triggers Compute Time is`

    

Raised if the triggers compute time per second has meets the specified
threshold.

`Triggers Current Oplog Lag Sum is`

    

Raised if the approximate amount of time that the App Services triggers is
behind the MongoDB oplog meets the specified threshold.

`Triggers Egress Bytes is`

    

Raised if the triggers data egress bytes per second meets the specified
threshold.

`Triggers Request Duration P95 is`

    

Raised if the 95th percentile of duration in milliseconds for triggers meets
the specified threshold.

## Serverless Alerts

The following alert conditions apply to serverless instances:

  * `Connections is`

  * `Connections % of configured limit is`

  * `DB Data Size is`

  * `Network: Bytes In is`

  * `Network: Bytes Out is`

  * `Network: Num Requests is`

  * `Opcounter: Cmd is`

  * `Opcounter: Delete is`

  * `Opcounter: Getmores is`

  * `Opcounter: Insert is`

  * `Opcounter: Query is`

  * `Opcounter: Update is`

`Serverless metric outside threshold`

    

Raised if any of the following conditions apply:

  * The number of open connections to the host exceeds 80% of the total open connections allowed.

  * The approximate size of all documents (and their paddings) and the index exceeds 0.75 terabytes.

  * The read processing units (RPUs) per second exceeds 250K for 30 minutes or more and realerts every 12 hours.

  * The read processing units (RPUs) per second exceeds 1 million for 5 minutes or more and realerts every 2 hours.

`Total Read Units is`

    

Raised if the total read processing units (RPUs) exceeds the specified
thresold.

`Total Write Units is`

    

Raised if the total write processing units (WPUs) exceeds the specified
thresold.

## User Alerts

The following alert conditions apply to Atlas users.

`Organization users do not have multi-factor authentication enabled`

    

Raised when one or more users in an organization do not have multi-factor
authentication enabled.

`User had their role changed`

    

Raised when an Atlas user's project or organization roles have changed.

`User joined the organization`

    

Raised when a new user joins the Atlas organization.

`User joined the project`

    

Raised when a new user joins the Atlas project.

`User left the organization`

    

Raised when a user leaves the Atlas organization.

`User left the project`

    

Raised when a user leaves the Atlas project.

## Project Alerts

The following alert conditions apply to your Atlas project.

`Users awaiting approval to join project`

    

Raised if there are users who have asked to join the project. A user can ask
to join a project when first registering for Atlas.

`Users do not have multi-factor authentication enabled`

    

Raised if the project or organization has users who have not set up multi-
factor authentication.

## Billing Alerts

The following alert conditions apply to Atlas billing. You can configure
billing alerts from the Atlas UI at the organization level or the project
level.

To configure organization-level alerts, select your organization and navigate
to Alerts.

To configure project-level alerts, select your project. Navigate to your
project settings and then to Alerts, or click the __icon in the top right
corner of your project cluster view.

## Note

All amounts billed are in USD.

`Amount billed ($) yesterday is above the threshold`

    

Raised if the organization or project's last daily amount billed exceeds your
configured threshold. Atlas does not account for any credits applied for the
previous day when calculating the billed amount.

This condition applies to both organizations and projects.

`Credit card is about to expire`

    

Raised if the credit card on file is about to expire. The alert is triggered
at the beginning of the month that the card expires. Atlas enables this alert
when a credit card is added for the first time.

This condition applies to both organizations and projects.

`Current bill ($) for any single project is above the threshold`

    

Raised if the monthly total for any project within the organization exceeds
your configured threshold for all projects. When the current pending invoice
closes, this alert resets.

This alert condition applies to organizations only.

`Current bill ($) for the organization is above the threshold`

    

Raised if the monthly total for the organization exceeds your configured
threshold. When the current pending invoice closes, this alert resets.

This alert condition applies to organizations only.

## Federation Alerts

`Organization's IdP certificate is about to expire`

    

Raised when an IdP certificate associated with an organization for which you
have the `Organization Owner` role expires within 14 days. Atlas sends this
alert daily until you acknowledge it.

## Note

Atlas creates this alert automatically when you map an organization to an IdP
provider. If you remove the mapping, Atlas deletes all instances of this
alert.

## Encryption at Rest Alerts

The following alert conditions apply to projects using Encryption at Rest
using Customer Key Management.

`AWS encryption key elapsed time since last rotation is above (n) days`

    

Raised if the AWS Customer Master Key (CMK) used by the Atlas project has been
active for more than the configured number of days (90 by default). You can
modify the alert threshold from the Alert Settings tab of the Alerts view.

Atlas automatically rotates MongoDB master encryption keys every 90 days, but
does not rotate the project's CMK.

This alert resets automatically if you rotate the project CMK. For
documentation on how to rotate your project CMK, see Rotate your AWS Customer
Master Key.

`Azure encryption key elapsed time since last rotation is above (n) days`

    

Raised if the Azure Key Vault Key Identifier used by the Atlas project has
been active for more than the configured number of days (90 by default). You
can modify the alert threshold from the Alert Settings tab of the Alerts view.

Atlas automatically rotates MongoDB master encryption keys every 90 days, but
does not rotate the project's Key Identifier.

This alert resets automatically if you rotate the project Key Identifier. For
documentation on how to rotate your project Key Identifier, see Rotate your
Azure Key Identifier.

`GCP encryption key elapsed time since last rotation is above (n) days`

    

Raised if the GCP Key Version Resource ID used by the Atlas project has been
active for more than the configured number of days (90 by default). You can
modify the alert threshold from the Alert Settings tab of the Alerts view.

Atlas automatically rotates MongoDB master encryption keys every 90 days, but
does not rotate the project's Key Version Resource ID.

This alert resets automatically if you rotate the project Key Version Resource
ID.

## Tip

### See also:

To learn how to rotate your project Key Version Resource ID, see Rotate your
GCP Key Version Resource ID.

## Maintenance Window Alerts

The following alert conditions apply to projects with configured maintenance
windows.

## Note

You can only configure maintenance window alerts if a project has an active
maintenance window.

`Maintenance Is Scheduled`

    

Raised 72 hours prior to scheduled maintenance for a project.

`Maintenance No Longer Needed`

    

Raised if scheduled maintenance is no longer needed for a project.

`Maintenance Started`

    

Raised when maintenance starts for a project.

← Configure and Resolve AlertsConfigure Alert Settings →

