Docs Home → Launch & Manage MongoDB → MongoDB Atlas

# FAQ: Billing

Share Feedback

On this page

  * Where do I find a breakdown of costs?
  * Why does my invoice include usage from last month?
  * How can I reduce my data transfer costs?
  * Why did my Atlas payment fail?
  * How can I pay for an Atlas subscription with a credit card?
  * How can I pay for MongoDB Atlas without a credit card?
  * What happens when I exhaust my Atlas credits and move to elastic billing?
  * Has MongoDB received my invoice payment?
  * Where can I find MongoDB's bank details?
  * How do I update my billing contact information?

## Where do I find a breakdown of costs?

A breakdown of costs for all MongoDB Cloud product usage can be found on your
monthly cloud invoices, viewable in Atlas through your organization’s Billing
page.

## Why does my invoice include usage from last month?

Cloud usage at the very end of a billing period may appear as a line item on
your invoice for the next billing period instead. For example, usage on
October 31st may be processed in November.

Atlas data transfer, private endpoint, and backup costs depend on your Cloud
Service Provider. Due to reporting lag from Cloud Service Providers, usage of
these services may be processed the in following days.

## How can I reduce my data transfer costs?

There are a number of ways to optimize data transference depending on the
configuration of your project. For a list of common options, see How to Reduce
Data Transfer Costs on the Billing page.

## Why did my Atlas payment fail?

Payments will fail if there is an issue with your Payment Method. To learn how
to verify your Payment Method and retry your payment, see Retry a Failed
Payment.

Customers in the European Economic Area (EEA) may experience payment failures
due to Strong Customer Authentication (SCA), a European regulatory
requirement. To learn how to authenticate a credit card and comply with SCA,
see Strong Customer Authentication (SCA).

## How can I pay for an Atlas subscription with a credit card?

To pay for an Atlas subscription with a credit card:

  1. Contact MongoDB Sales to purchase a subscription.

  2. Email a request to ar@mongodb.com to pay for your active subscription with a credit card. Please include your Organization ID in your request.

You can find your Organization ID in the Atlas UI, under your organization's
General Settings.

## How can I pay for MongoDB Atlas without a credit card?

You can pay with PayPal through the Atlas console.

For alternative payment methods, or to purchase an Atlas subscription, please
contact MongoDB Sales.

## What happens when I exhaust my Atlas credits and move to elastic billing?

When you exhaust your Atlas credits and you have an elastic billing
subscription, you can continue to use Atlas without interruption. You're
billed for usage beyond your credits with monthly invoices.

Your organization activity feed produces an event notifying you that MongoDB
will invoice your organization for your monthly usage. The payment method
section of your organization's billing overview reflects the change.

## Has MongoDB received my invoice payment?

With a MongoDB subscription, you can check if MongoDB has received a payment
for an invoice in the Atlas console:

  1. Navigate to your organization's Billing page.

  2. Click on the invoice for which you want to check your payment status.

  3. Scroll down to the Payments section of the invoice. The Status column lists your payment status.

If MongoDB has received a payment, the payment status is `SUCCESSFUL`.

To learn more, see Payments statuses.

## Where can I find MongoDB's bank details?

With a MongoDB subscription, MongoDB’s bank details are listed on the tax
invoice emailed to your billing contact.

To learn more, see Pay Subscription Charges.

## How do I update my billing contact information?

To update your billing contact information, email a request to ar@mongodb.com.
Please include your company's name, your Organization ID, and your new billing
contact information.

You can find your Organization ID in the Atlas UI, under your organization's
General Settings.

← FAQ: BackupFAQ: Connection String Options →

