Docs Home → Launch & Manage MongoDB → MongoDB Atlas

# Get Help with Atlas

Share Feedback

On this page

  * Required Roles
  * Request Support
  * Modify a Support Plan
  * Flex Consulting

MongoDB Atlas offers several packages to support your organization or project.
Atlas includes a free Basic support plan, or you can upgrade to a paid plan
for extended support services. Details on support plans are available through
the UI as part of the procedure to change your support plan or by contacting
MongoDB.

## Required Roles

To raise and view support cases, you must have the appropriate roles:

Support Cases

|

Scope

|

Role  
  
||  
  
Can View

|

Project

|

Any user with any role in the project  
  
Can Raise

|

Project

|

All user with any project role except the `Project Read Only` role  
  
Can View and Raise

|

Organization and Project

|

Any user with the `Organization Owner` for the organization  
  
## Request Support

Based on your support plan, you can request support through the Atlas console
in the following ways:

Basic Support Plan

Developer & Premium Support Plans

  * Click the in-app chat icon in the lower right corner to chat with a MongoDB Support representative.

  * Click Support in the left-hand navigation to view Developer Resources.

## Modify a Support Plan

When you upgrade, downgrade, or cancel a support plan, billing changes occur
on the first day of the next month. When you cancel a support plan during the
trial period, billing stops immediately.

Basic Support Plan

Developer & Premium Support Plans

1

### Navigate to the Support page for your organization.

  1. If it is not already displayed, select your desired organization from the __ Organizations menu in the navigation bar.

  2. Click Support in the sidebar.

2

### Select a Support Plan.

## Note

You always have access to the free Basic support plan.

## Flex Consulting

MongoDB Atlas offers personalized, expert consulting with Flex Consulting
units.

To purchase Flex Consulting units through the Atlas console:

1

### Navigate to the Support page for your organization.

  1. If it is not already displayed, select your desired organization from the __ Organizations menu in the navigation bar.

  2. Click Support in the sidebar.

2

### Purchase Flex Consulting units.

  1. Under Flex Consulting, click Buy Flex Consulting.

  2. Select a level of engagement.

  3. Click Continue to Checkout and complete steps 3 to 6 to configure the billing information.

3

### Update your Billing Address details as needed.

Field

|

Necessity

|

Action  
  
||  
  
Billing Email Address

|

Optional

|

Type the email address to which Atlas should send billing alerts.

By default, Atlas sends billing alerts to the Organization Owners and Billing
Admins.

  * If you leave the Billing Email Address blank, Atlas sends billing alerts to the Organization Owners and Billing Admins.

  * If you specify a billing email address and uncheck Only send invoice emails to the Billing Email Address, Atlas sends billing alerts to the billing email address, Organization Owners, and Billing Admins.

  * If you specify a billing email address and check the box for Only send invoice emails to the Billing Email Address, Atlas send billing alerts to the billing email address only.

  
  
Company Name

|

Optional

|

Type the name of the company for your billing address.  
  
Country

|

Required

|

Select the country for your billing address. You can also start typing the
name of the country and then select it from the filtered list of countries.  
  
Street Address

|

Required

|

Type the street address for your billing address.  
  
Apt/Suite/Floor

|

Optional

|

Type an the apartment, suite, or floor for your billing address.  
  
City

|

Required

|

Type the name of the city for your billing address.  
  
State/Province/Region

|

Required

|

Type or select the political subdivision in which your billing address exists.
The label and field change depending on what you selected as your **Country**
:

  * If you select **United States** as your **Country** , this label changes to **State**. The field changes to a dropdown menu of U.S. states. You can also start typing the name of the state and then select it from the filtered list of states.

  * If you select **Canada** as your **Country** , this label changes to **Province**. The field changes to a dropdown menu of Canadian provinces. You can also start typing the name of the province and then select it from the filtered list of provinces.

  * If you select any other country as your **Country** , this label changes to **State/Province/Region**. The field changes to a text box. Type the name of your province, state, or region in this box.

  
  
ZIP or Postal Code

|

Required

|

Type the ZIP (U.S.) or Postal Code (other countries) for your billing address.  
  
VAT Number

|

Conditional

|

Atlas displays the VAT ID field if you select a country other than the United
States.

To learn more about VAT, see VAT ID.

If your company's billing address is in a country other than the United States
(USA), Atlas typically charges VAT if you do not enter a valid `VAT ID Number`
on your billing profile.

## Important

If your billing address is in Ireland or certain Canadian provinces, Atlas
always charges VAT, even with a valid `VAT ID Number`.

To learn more about VAT by region, see International Usage and Taxation.  
  
4

### Update your Payment Method details as needed.

  1. Click the radio button for Credit Card or Paypal.

    * If you selected Credit Card, type values for the following fields:

Field

|

Necessity

|

Action  
  
||  
  
Name on Card

|

Required

|

Type the name that appears on your credit card.  
  
Card Number

|

Required

|

Type the 16-digit number that appears on your credit card. American Express
uses a 15-digit number.  
  
Expiration Date

|

Required

|

Type the expiration date for your credit card in the two-digit month and two-
digit year format.  
  
CVC

|

Required

|

Type the three-digit number on the back of your credit card. American Express
uses a 4-digit number found on the front of the credit card.  
  
    * If you selected PayPal:

      1. Click Pay with PayPal.

      2. Complete the actions on the PayPal website.

All projects within your organization share the same billing settings,
including payment method.

5

### Review Cart.

6

### Click Confirm and Purchase Flex Consulting.

To learn more or to purchase Flex Consulting units from a representative, see
MongoDB Flex Consulting.

## Note

You must schedule consulting hours to use Flex Consulting units. When you
purchase Flex Consulting, you receive a confirmation email with further
instructions.

← GlossaryProduction Notes →

