Docs Home → Launch & Manage MongoDB → MongoDB Atlas

# Manage Organization Access

Share Feedback

On this page

  * Require Multi-Factor Authentication
  * Require IP Access List for the Atlas Administration API
  * Require IP Access List for the Atlas UI

As the `Organization Owner`, you can control access to your organization in
the following ways:

  * Require Multi-Factor Authentication

  * Require IP Access List for the Atlas Administration API

  * Require IP Access List for the Atlas UI

## Note

### Required Permissions

To perform any of the following actions, you must have the `Organization
Owner` role.

## Require Multi-Factor Authentication

If you enable multi-factor authentication on your own Atlas account, you can
require that all Atlas users in your organization enable MFA for their Atlas
accounts.

### Procedure

1

#### Navigate to the Settings page for your organization.

  1. If it is not already displayed, select your desired organization from the __ Organizations menu in the navigation bar.

  2. Click the Organization Settings icon next to the Organizations menu.

2

#### Toggle Require Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) to On.

## Require IP Access List for the Atlas Administration API

You can configure Atlas to require API access lists at the organization level.
When you enable IP access list for the Atlas Administration API, all API calls
in that organization must originate from a valid entry in the associated Atlas
Administration API key access list. See also API Access Lists endpoint.

### Procedure

1

#### Navigate to the Settings page for your organization.

  1. If it is not already displayed, select your desired organization from the __ Organizations menu in the navigation bar.

  2. Click the Organization Settings icon next to the Organizations menu.

2

#### Toggle Require IP Access List for the Atlas Administration API to On.

## Require IP Access List for the Atlas UI

## Important

To enable the configuration of IP access list for the Atlas UI for your
organizations, contact Atlas support.

You can configure Atlas to require Atlas UI access lists at the organization
level. When you enable the IP access list for the Atlas UI, all access to the
Atlas UI in that organization must originate from an entry in that list.

You can:

  * Configure and Enable IP Access List for the Atlas UI

  * Edit IP Access List for the Atlas UI

  * Disable IP Access List for the Atlas UI

### Configure and Enable IP Access List for the Atlas UI

To enable IP address access list for an organization, you must add a CIDR
range that includes your own IP address, or your own IP address to the list.
Once you add your IP address or add a CIDR block that contains this address,
Atlas activates the Enable button. You can then add other IP addresses and
CIDR ranges, and CIDR ranges, as needed.

1

#### Navigate to the Settings page for your organization.

  1. If it is not already displayed, select your desired organization from the __ Organizations menu in the navigation bar.

  2. Click the Organization Settings icon next to the Organizations menu.

2

#### Configure IP access list for the Atlas UI.

  1. Navigate to Define IP Access List for the Atlas User Interface.

  2. Click Configure. The IP Access List for the Atlas UI page opens where you can configure, enable, and make changes to the IP access list for the Atlas UI for your organization.

3

#### Add IP addresses or CIDR blocks to the IP list for the Atlas UI.

  1. Enter an IP address or a CIDR range block in the table.

You can:

    * Add IPv4 or IPv6 addresses, such as `1.1.1.2`, for IPv4, and `3ffe:1900:fe21:4545:0000:0000:0000:0000`, for IPv6, or CIDR block ranges, such as `2.1.1.1/16`, and their descriptions to the list.

    * Click __to delete an entered address or range and enter a new one instead.

Atlas validates IP addresses and CIDR blocks that you enter and flags the
invalid entries.

You can't:

    * Delete all addresses or your own IP address from the list. If you attempt to delete these addresses, Atlas prevents you from saving changes.

    * Add invalid IP addresses, such as malformed or out of range addresses for the entered CIDR ranges.

    * Add duplicate addresses. You can, however, add a CIDR range that has a particular IP address and also enter that IP address itself.

    * Edit addresses or CIDR blocks in the table. To edit an entry, delete it and add a new entry.

  2. Add an optional description.

  3. Click Add Entry to add an IP address or a CIDR range for users in your organization, or click Add my Current IP Address.

The IP access list table identifies your current IP address or a CIDR range
containing it as yours and adds their descriptions, even if you didn't provide
descriptions for these entries.

4

#### Enable IP access list for the Atlas UI.

To activate the Enable button that enables IP access list restrictions, you,
as an `Organization Owner` must add your current IP address or a CIDR range
with your current IP address to the list.

If the list is empty, or if Atlas detects that the list doesn't have your IP
address, Atlas deactivates the Enable button to prevent locking you out of the
organization.

  1. Click Enable.

Atlas asks you for a confirmation.

  2. Click Enable to confirm, or Cancel to cancel.

Once you enable IP access list for the Atlas UI, only the defined IP addresses
and ranges can access this organization's Atlas UI. If a user's IP address
isn't on the list, Atlas disables (grays out) all organizations with
restricted access for this user in its organizations list. If this user
attempts to access an Atlas UI page for any restricted organization, Atlas
displays the following warning:

    
        You don't have permission to view the <url-with-organizationID> in the  
      
    Atlas UI. To gain access, ask the organization owner to add your  
    IP address to the IP access list.  
  
API keys that inherit from this IP access list use the list for IP access
restrictions.

### Edit IP Access List for the Atlas UI

If you enable IP access list for the Atlas UI, the IP Access List for the
Atlas UI menu on the Organization > Settings page changes from Configure to
the following options: Edit and Disable.

1

#### Configure IP access list for the Atlas UI.

  1. In Organization Settings, navigate to Define IP Access List for the Atlas User Interface.

  2. Click Configure. The IP Access List for the Atlas UI page opens where you can make changes to the IP access list for the Atlas UI for your organization.

2

#### Edit IP addresses or CIDR blocks to the IP access list for the Atlas UI.

  1. Click Edit. The IP list table opens that allows you to add additional IP addresses or CIDR block ranges.

You can:

    * Add IPv4 or IPv6 addresses, such as `1.1.1.2`, for IPv4, and `3ffe:1900:fe21:4545:0000:0000:0000:0000`, for IPv6, or CIDR block ranges, such as `2.1.1.1/16`, and their descriptions to the list.

    * Click __to delete an entered address or range and enter a new one instead.

Atlas validates IP addresses and CIDR blocks that you enter and flags invalid
entries.

You can't:

    * Delete all addresses or your own IP address from the list. If you attempt to delete these addresses, Atlas prevents you from saving changes.

    * Add invalid IP addresses, such as malformed or out of range addresses for the entered CIDR ranges.

    * Add duplicate addresses. You can, however, add a CIDR range that contains a particular IP address and also enter that IP address itself.

    * Edit addresses or CIDR blocks in the table. To edit an entry, delete it and add a new entry.

  2. Add an optional description.

  3. Click Add Entry to add an IP address or a CIDR range, or click Add my Current IP Address.

3

#### Save the edited IP access list.

Atlas disables the Save button in the upper-right corner if you delete your
own IP address or a CIDR block with your IP address from the list.

To activate the Save button, add a CIDR block with your current IP address (or
your IP address) to the list, in addition to any other addresses or CIDR
ranges that you or other organization owners have already added.

Click Save.

Atlas shows a confirmation message that it successfully saved changes.

API keys that inherit from this IP access list use the list for IP access
restrictions.

### Disable IP Access List for the Atlas UI

1

#### Click Define IP Access List for the Atlas User Interface.

In Organization Settings, navigate to Define IP Access List for the Atlas User
Interface.

2

#### Click Configure.

The IP Access List for the Atlas UI page opens. If the list was previously
enabled, the Atlas UI shows Enabled next to the page title.

3

#### Click Disable.

Atlas asks you to confirm. If you disable the IP access list, Atlas:

  * Disables all IP restrictions for the Atlas UI` for the organization.

  * Retains the IP access list that you had previously configured. API keys that inherit from this IP access list no longer use the list for IP access restrictions.

4

#### Confirm that you want to disable IP access list.

Click Disable to confirm.

The Atlas UI shows Disabled next to the page title.

← Atlas User RolesManage Organizations →

